===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====
Towards 
Mental
Exploits
David Oyedepo
===== PDF PAGE 3 =====
Introduction
For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he...
Proverbs 23:7
Your worth in life is essentially a product of the use of your mind. Man is a
unique creature, and possesses unusual endowments. There is so much inside 
man! Only eternity, I think, can reveal the total worth of the creature called 
Man. Friend, as a child of God, you have what it takes to make the most out of 
life! If ordinary minds have produced the outstanding results we see today, then
God i s expecting you to do better than that, to produce extraordinary results by 
the appropriate use of your God-given mind. If those who are not born again 
are still getting great results, then imagine how much God is expecting from 
you and me. The state of your life is determined by the state of your mind. Your
thoughts hold the key to your life. I have been burdened by the dire need for 
mental enlargement through supernatural encounters in the body of Christ.
That is the reason for this book to help you discover that your destiny is in 
your hand. I want you to understand that it is impossible to think one thing and 
produce another, and to also appreciate the fact that a happy and productive life 
results from correct thinking. All I'm out to establish in this book is that through
the appropriate use of your mind, you can produce the changes you desire, for, 
as he thinketh in his heart, so is he...
I want to help you appreciate the fact that you're not here on earth to live 
an ordinary life, but to be an example to multitudes a path-finder here on earth, 
the envy of your generation.
Through the things I will be sharing with you in this book, you will come 
to the point of personal power that overcomes fear and banishes worry and 
anxiety. Ultimately, you will be open to the way of a better, grander, happier 
and richer life!
By the time you're through reading this book, you will accept full 
responsibility for your life, and will have results to prove that God's Word is 
true.
===== PDF PAGE 4 =====
CHAPTER 1: 
UNDERSTANDING THE MIND
Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life.
 Proverbs 4:23
Biologically, the heart is the centre of life. The Bible also reinforces the 
fact that your mind acts as the pivot around which your whole existence 
revolves, as it is where thinking takes place (Prov. 23:7).
Success does not demand prayer and fasting, as much as engaging your 
senses positively. Man s brain is the myth behind all his gains. Every gain in 
life is a result of the use of the brain. No one reigns in life without the use of the
brain. It is the effective use of the brain that secures you a throne here on earth. 
Every star in life is essentially sense-made. Heights in life are results of insights
inside of a man.
Success, therefore, is a product of the right use of the sense. No school has
a Faculty of Success. It is the use of the sense that commands success. 
Supernatural intelligence therefore calls for extreme attention.
The Mind
We can define the mind as a man s seat of feelings or thoughts. It is the 
intelligence faculty of a man. The mind has the ability to think and reason. Your
worth in life is essentially a product of the use to which you put your min d. 
Think of this: How much worth or value does a mad man have? He is not 
recognized as a person, only as a specimen. For instance, he's not permitted to 
vote and cannot be voted for. As a matter of fact, he's not reckoned with during 
census, meaning, he's not counted as a human being. 
What is the problem? He's mentally grounded! And by that situation, he 
has lost his entire worth as a man. You're a person of great value; but your value
is essentially a function of the use to which you put your mind.
When you become mentally grounded, you automatically become 
valueless. For instance, can you send a mad man on an errand? Can he work in 
any organization? There are many physically blind people who are getting so 
much done in life. The re are also many crippled today that are accomplishing 
great feats in life. But this is not so for the mad. We've never read of any 
===== PDF PAGE 5 =====
accomplishment by a mad man. A t the point of insanity, a man s entire dignity 
is eroded, his entire value is lost!
That gives you an idea of the place of your mind in determining your 
ultimate value in life. Your mind is the factor that makes you relevant to the 
world. When it is out of place, your place in life is lost!
The Mind And The Spirit
Unfortunately, many Christians think that the spirit of a man is more 
important than the mind. But I d like to let you know, that your mind is as 
important as your spirit. For instance, you can't be saved without your mind.
 John 1:12 says: 
But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the 
sons of God, even to them that believe on his name:
The place of believe is not the spirit, but the mind. To believe is a product 
of conviction. What you're saying is, Based on these facts, I agree. In fact, 
believe can be defined as mental assent. That is, I concur. I agree. With these 
facts at my disposal, I now accept Jesus as my personal Lord and Saviour.
That s why we can safely say that your mind is the gateway to your life. 
Nothing gets to you without first passing through your mind. And when the 
Bible says, Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life 
(Prov. 4: 23), it's talking about paying absolute attention to your mind, because 
your mind determines your ultimate worth in life.
Two Types Of Mind
We have an advantage in redemption when it comes to the issue of the 
mind. There is a marked difference between the mind of a saved person and that
of an unsaved person. 
The Carnal And The Spiritual Mind
For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is 
life and peace.
Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not subject 
===== PDF PAGE 6 =====
to the law of God, neither indeed can be. 
Romans 8:6-7
There is the carnal mind and also the spiritual mind. The carnal mind is 
what the carnal man possesses, and the spiritual mind is what the spiritual man 
possesses. The ultimate product of the carnal mind is death, whereas the 
ultimate product of the spiritual mind is life and peace.
Every unregenerated (unsaved) soul possesses a reprobate mind that makes
him do silly things. No wonder the Bible says in Romans 1:28:
And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, 
God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which 
are not convenient;
But there is good news for you! One of the things that happen when one 
gets born again is the renewal of the mind.
Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things 
are passed a way; behold, all things are become new. 
2 Corinthians 5:17
If a carnal and unregenerated mind is capable of producing results, then 
you don't have any reason under heaven to be complaining and murmuring 
about life, if you are saved. 
The Mind Of Christ
For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct 
him? But we have the mind of Christ.
1 Corinthians 2:16
New life is infused into a man s mind at redemption, making him 
supernaturally smarter than his peers. You have a spiritual mind at salvation. 
The Bible describes it as the mind of Christ! Ephesians 4:23 also says:
And be renewed in the spirit of your mind;
===== PDF PAGE 7 =====
Your mind was spirited at new birth. And the Bible further tells us in 
Romans 8:11:
But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in 
you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your 
mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.
That means, your biological system (including your mind) was affected at 
new birth, by the infusion of the Spirit of life. So your mind is now spirited or 
regenerated. You're a new person, and belong to a strange class.
You have the mind of Christ! At new birth, your natural mind was 
exchanged for that of Christ. It was first regenerated, then it was spirited, and 
then it is delivered to you as a complete package qualified as the mind of 
Christ. And of Christ, John 1:3-5 says: 
All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing 
made that was made.
In him was life; and the life was the light of men.
And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended
it not.
 So, you have the ability to bring new things to being. You have what it 
takes to operate as a co-creator with God, because all the abilities of heaven is 
packaged inside you. You're a divine think-tank! You have what it takes to find 
your way out of any storm. 
This should help you to appreciate your worth, as you confront the 
challenges of life. You say to yourself, I have what it takes to deal with this 
issue. This matter is not beyond me. Why? I have the mind of Christ. And as 
soon as that mind is put to work, I have what it takes to create what I need. For 
by that mind were all things made, and without that mind was not anything 
made that was made. Friend, the quality of your life is determined by the state 
of your mind without your mind, you have no worth. It is the use to which you 
put your mind that makes the world to mind you. don't mind him! they say, 
because the man is not using his mind. But they will mind you when your mind 
is in productive use. 
Somebody once asked me, What do you do with your time? And I replied, 
I read and think. As a result, I don't waste too much energy. Before I take any 
step, I must have determined what it takes to get the result I am looking for.
===== PDF PAGE 8 =====
Every star is known to be a thinker; and every committed thinker is bound 
to be a star. Stop running here and there. Sit down first and think before you 
start running around. Calculate your steps, so that when you do take your steps, 
you already know where you're going.
You are a unique human being, if you are saved. You have a regenerated 
mind, you have the mind of Christ and a spirited mind. And much more, 
because you have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you, you also have One who 
quickens your mind. So, by the appropriate use of your mind, I see every crisis 
in your family, business or finances disappear!
===== PDF PAGE 9 =====
CHAPTER 2: 
FUNCTIONS OF THE MIND
By much slothfulness the building decayeth; and through idleness 
of the hands the house droppeth through.
Ecclesiastes 10:18
Anything that is not put to use will become disused and will soon cease to 
function. Even in the natural, you will discover that any building not put to use 
soon begins to run down. It runs down faster than a building that is fully in use. 
In like manner, your mind has specific tasks that it carries out. If not put to use, 
it will run down. To keep it in top form, all you need do is ask yourself, What 
are the fundamental functions of my mind, so I can keep it alive, and not watch 
it run down?
Let me outline four major functions of the mind; your mind will be 
productive, if fully engaged in them.
Learning
Learning takes place in the mind. The mind is able to acquire and store 
information, making it available for use when it is required. 
Dr. T. L. Osborn said something, which I totally agree with. He said, When
you st op learning, you start dying. Abraham Lincoln also said, When you stop 
learning, you're old, whether at 20 or 80.
Your age is not what determines old age. If your mind is not put to proper 
use, your body soon begins to age. If you keep your mind young by putting it to
proper use, it will youngen your body. The great task before you, therefore, is to
keep your mind alive, through a consistent learning process, so you don't 
become outdated. Be conscious of the need to be current. Be open to learn. The 
largest room in the world, we are told, is the room for improvement.
There was a man called Daniel. He was the wisest man in his time. And we
are told in Daniel 9:2, I Daniel understood by books... Even though he was the 
master of astrologers, magicians, Chaldeans and soothsayers, he was still a 
learner. When you stop learning, you start dying! This is because people start 
ageing from the mind, not the body.
===== PDF PAGE 10 =====
When your mind starts becoming outdated, your body also starts ageing. 
But if any man keeps learning, he remains young. 
I have written some books on wisdom, but I still have plenty of books by 
other authors that I consult with delight, on the subject. I keep learning from 
them those things I didn't know when I was writing those books. But there are 
people today, who since they left school, have never read one whole book. All 
they do is to read the conclusion and probably the introduction, and then close 
the book. Anytime I get to talking about this subject of learning, the story of 
Anthony Robbins comes readily to my mind. In his high school days, he is 
reported to have read 700 books ranging from Psychology to Philosophy and 
various other subjects till he grew to become a man of solutions in his school. 
So much so that even his teachers began consulting him. He finished high 
school and became an instant celebrity. He had exercised his senses through 
learning! Now, he's a consultant to IBM and Presidents of many developed 
countries. 
You have some books, true; but they are just there, neatly arranged on your
library shelf. You know the titles and authors, but you don't know the contents! 
Paul was one of the wisest men in his days. Peter said of him,...Even as our 
beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written 
unto you... speaking in them of these things; in which are some things hard to 
be understood... (2 Pet. 3:15-16). 
This same Paul while instructing Timothy in 2 Timothy 4:13 said: 
The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest, bring
with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.
He was talking about his notes. This man wrote about 50% of the New 
Testament, yet, he was still carrying books and notes about.
Your mind will die, except you put it to work! It was God who gave Paul 
wisdom, but Paul had to keep his mind alive by learning. God gave Daniel 
wisdom, yet Daniel had to consult books in order to acquire understanding.
Knowledge
Learning culminates in knowledge. Knowledge is what you acquire in the 
process o f learning. It is the sum or range of what has been perceived, 
discovered or learned. It is also the familiarity, awareness or understanding 
gained through experience or study. 
Knowledge is acquired through the use of the mind in learning. And you 
===== PDF PAGE 11 =====
know, knowledge is power. The Bible says,...ye shall know the truth, and the 
truth shall make you free (Jn. 8:32). Hosea 4:6 also says:
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast 
rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no 
priest to me...
From this we understand that knowledge is not just the art of gathering 
information, it is power. It has the ability to set free.
The mind is the principal tool in the learning process. For instance, there's 
no way a mad person can be in a class and gain anything from what is being 
taught. You may force him to sit down, but you can't force anything into him, 
because his m ind is out of use. He may be looking at the person speaking, but 
he doesn't have the ability to assimilate what is being taught. This is because his
mind, which i s the tool for acquiring knowledge, is out of use. 
I had the privilege of visiting Reverend Kenneth E. Hagin in Tulsa 
Oklahoma. As we entered his office, we saw opened on his table, a new book 
by Dr. T. L. Osborn that he was reading. 
Oswald J. Smith s story thrills me a lot. I read from his biography that he 
was still consulting his dictionary at the age of 93. He is quoted as saying, As I 
was going through my dictionary, I discovered there's a major difference 
between faith and trust. No wonder he lived for 96 years! 
Norman Vincent Pearle was a great teacher, who taught me the power of 
positive thinking in 1974. You know what? He was an ordained minister for 72 
years! Friend, if you put your mind to maximum use, it will invigorate and 
revitalize y our body. From the parable of the talent, we see that every divine 
deposit multiplies with use. So bring out the best in you, by putting your mind 
to work. Let every businessman learn by reading biographies of successful 
Christian businessmen. Read, learn and gather facts from them, so that your 
business can come out of obscurity, into the limelight. Don't die as a local 
champion, who says, My shop is the biggest on our street, when your street is 
nothing but an obscure place in an unknown area! That's not where God wants 
your journey to end. The world is waiting to hear your name, so read books that
will force you to think progress thoughts and to forge ahead.
I always read books of those who are several times ahead of me, so that I 
can see my smallness and be determined to go forward. I read everything I can 
lay my hands on, to see if my brain can develop yet a little more.
Wake up! Every divine deposit multiplies with use. I'd like you to pray this
prayer:
===== PDF PAGE 12 =====
Lord Jesus, I don't want You to regret Your rich deposits in my life. Let 
Your grace attend to me right now, to help me become a committed learner, a 
diligent student of life s issues. I receive that grace today.
If you can convince God that you will not waste it, God has no problem 
dropping His deposit in you. Learning guarantees liberty (Jn. 8:32) and exploits
(Dan. 11:32).
Understanding
Understanding is another function of the mind. Paul prayed this prayer in 
Ephesians 1:17-18:
That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may 
give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge 
of him:
The eyes of your understanding being enlightened; that ye may 
know what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the 
glory of his inheritance in the saints,
Understanding is a step forward in the school of knowledge. Whereas 
knowledge gets the information across, understanding unravels the things 
behind it. There is this episode in Acts chapter 8, where Phillip asked the 
Ethiopian eunuch, Understandest thou what thou readest? (Acts 8:30). That is, 
Do you know what you're reading?
The man replied, Yes, I am reading from Isaiah 53. But Phillip must have 
asked, Do you know what it's talking about? Yes, it's talking about a sheep led 
to the slaughter that openeth not its mouth, the Eunuch replied. But, do you 
understand it? Phillip must have asked finally. No, replied the Eunuch, I don't.
There is, therefore, a great difference between knowledge and 
understanding. 
Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is 
hard. 
Proverbs 13:15
What good understanding does is to make you outstanding in your quest in
===== PDF PAGE 13 =====
life. Your depth of understanding determines how outstanding you become in 
life. I believe that understanding results when you process knowledge with 
commitment. And how is knowledge processed? Here is the knowledge. But 
what does it offer me? you ask yourself. How do I get at the benefits it carries? 
What is required of me to tap into the virtues of this information? With these 
questions, you find your coast getting enlarged, as understanding begins to 
dawn on you.
It's one thing to have a vision for instance, and another to understand the 
vision. It's how much understanding of that vision you have that will 
subsequently determine the outstanding nature of your accomplishment.
For instance, the Bible says, Two are better than one (Eccl. 4:9). But for 
some, their condition in marriage is worse than before they got married, making
them conclude that they were better off before the two of them came together. 
Is God's Word now a lie? No, God's Word is always true. Perhaps it is the 
people's application of it that is wrong. They have probably not taken time to 
understand what it takes to make two better than one. They lack understanding. 
When understanding comes in and the wisdom of correct application takes its 
place, then you find two actually becoming better than one.
You Have An Advantage
You have an advantage as a believer. When you're baptized in the Holy 
Ghost, among other things, the Bible says that the Spirit of the Lord will make 
you of a quick understanding.
Knowledge is limited to what you can see, touch, smell and feel; but 
understanding goes beyond that. Talking about Jesus in that prophecy in Isaiah 
11, the Bible says, and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither 
reprove after the hearing of his ears. That shows us where knowledge stops. It 
is limited to what your eyes can see and your ears hear.
Going beyond the seeing of His eyes and the hearing of His ears, the Bible 
talking about Jesus said that the Spirit of the Lord shall make him of quick 
understanding. Meaning He will go beyond seeing and hearing, because the 
Holy Spirit will grant Him unusual access into the deep things of God, making 
Him outstanding in His accomplishments. 
When you are redeemed, you have the Holy Spirit, who has a mission to 
quicken your understanding and make you supernaturally smart in grasping the 
issues of life and the things of God. 
Thank God for knowledge, but it is limited. Understanding is what helps 
===== PDF PAGE 14 =====
you to tap into the benefits of knowledge. It helps you actualize all you have 
acquired through knowledge. For instance, some have quite some insight on the
subject of divine healing, but they lack the understanding to walk in its reality. 
They have some form of knowledge, but they re limited in understanding, and 
that limitation in turn limits their results.
Almost every Christian has some bits of knowledge of prosperity, but not 
everyone is walking in the reality of it. This is because their understanding on 
the is sue is limited and thus, cannot deliver the desired result. 
What is it that processes knowledge into understanding?
Meditation
When you subject knowledge to intense meditation, the end product is 
understanding. Let's look at David in Psalm 119:96-100:
I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is 
exceeding broad. O how love I thy law! It is my meditation all the 
day.
Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine 
enemies: for they are ever with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy 
testimonies are my meditation.
I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.
Meditation was his access to understanding. Meditation is the mental
 processing of knowledge into understanding. David said, I understand 
more than the ancients, because I keep (ponder on) thy precepts.
A very startling study reveals that only 5% of the human populace think! 
Fifteen percent think they re thinking, while the remaining 80% would rather 
die than think.
Understanding does not just drop. It comes through a conscious process of 
meditation; that is staying mentally focused on an issue, until the nitty gritty of 
it are unfolded to you. 
Reasoning
The third function of the mind is reasoning. God expects you to engage 
your mind in reasoning. That s why He invites you in Isaiah 1:18 to Come now,
===== PDF PAGE 15 =====
and let us reason together...
What does it mean to reason? To reason implies to engage in rational, 
logical and analytical thinking. It also means good judgment; sound sense. And 
what is the end product? Quality decisions. Reasoning enhances the quality of 
decisions you make. 
After God gave the invitation in verse 18, to Come now, and let us reason 
together..., He went on to say in verse 19, If ye be willing and obedient, ye 
shall eat the good of the land. It, therefore, means that reasoning is required if 
you must gain access into your inheritance on earth. 
Like I said, reasoning is engaging in logical, rational and analytical 
thinking. This involves looking at issues objectively, with a view to locating the
right step to take; processing issues in your mind, to draw intelligent 
conclusions.
Come and let us reason together... God is in other words saying, Don't die 
in that cage. That s not your destiny. Sit up mentally, let's look at it together. In 
Isaiah 41:21, we again hear God say, Produce your cause... bring forth your 
strong reasons... It means God expects you to be a deep thinker, so you can 
bring forth strong reasons.
The Prodigal Son
There was this man in scriptures who was on his way to the end of his life.
But one day he sat up and engaged his mind in reasoning. The Bible says this of
him: 
And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of 
my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with 
hunger!
I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I 
have sinned against heaven, and before thee,
Luke. 15:17-18
The prodigal son reasoned his way back to a colourful destiny! He simply 
engaged the art of reasoning to terminate his sufferings. He probably said to 
himself, Where am I? How did I get here? Do I want to be out of here? What 
does it take to be out of where I am and to get to where I'm going? There's 
nowhere we were told that he prayed or fasted. All he did was to reason his way
===== PDF PAGE 16 =====
back to colour and beauty. 
The Church has long lost the art of thinking, and the enemy has taken 
advantage of this. God won't think or plan the food you'll eat for you. No matter
how hard you pray, God won't think for you. It's your responsibility to think, 
not His. So, wake up! It's time to effect a change in that situation. 
God counts on your reasoning. Receive grace now to employ this 
fundamental function of the mind in your personal life.
Sit Down First
Jesus gave a parable in Luke 14:28:
For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, 
and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?
Every tower builder is a tower thinker. The prodigal son sat himself down 
and found the answer to his problem. You need to first sit down and think it 
through. Reason within yourself, This is where I'm going, how do I get there? 
What does it take to get there? How prepared am I to get there?
Everything you see on the outside begins from the inside. Everything you 
see in the open started in the secret. It's time to get back to the fundamentals. 
When Jesus was confronted with the case of the woman caught in adultery, the 
Bible tells us that He stooped down and engaged in the art of reasoning. He 
started writing on the ground, as if He hadn't heard them; meanwhile, He was 
thinking through the issue. Having thought through, He looked up and 
challenged them:
...He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. 
John 8:7
What does reasoning guarantee? It guarantees a rising. No one builds a 
tower without first sitting down and thinking through what it takes to get it 
done. You need to count the cost, find out what it takes, see how prepared you 
are, before making a move. That is why reasoning makes you a high-flier in the 
race of life. Our Ministry was commissioned on a Saturday, and the following 
Monday, work star ted in the office, and it has remained open ever since. Before
we started, every thing we would need to get going was in place. The structure 
we would use for the next 20 years was in place. We've been following it since 
===== PDF PAGE 17 =====
then, and it's been working. But it took 26 months of first sitting down and 
planning, through mental processing of our objectives and laying hold of a 
good understanding of what our mission statement was.
If You Can Think Enough...! 
A man shared with me that when he was earning, one thousand naira, he 
had enough to spend. When he earned five thousand naira, he still had excess, 
and even when it increased to twenty thousand naira, it was still enough. I then 
said, This goes to confirm my belief that what you have is enough, if only you 
can think well.
This man, a professor, built a house without an overdraft, and he's a neat 
and heaven-bound Christian, who s not involved in any dubious business. How 
did he do it? If you can think enough, what you have is enough!
When I was earning three hundred naira, I didn't borrow, and I always had 
brought forward. If you can think enough, what you have is enough. You're not 
a beggar because you don't have enough, you're borrowing because you can't 
think enough. Have you ever sat up to consider how our old parents built 
houses? Most of them were peasant farmers, some never even saw one hundred 
naira together at a time, but they still built houses. But today, you find people 
who earn fifty thousand naira a month, and yet have not been able to build 
anything, not even a room! For them, it's a case of the more the income, the 
greater the waste. He gets to the village on a visit, with his whole family, and 
he's yelling, Is my room ready? All this because he's not thinking.
Friend, your future is full of colour. You're going somewhere, it's an 
enviable place. So, please take steps to get there. Sit up and think your way 
through to the place.
Imagination
The mind is also engaged in the art of imagination. This is a very vital 
function of the mind, because your imagination sets the pace for your 
destination. What is imagination? The American Heritage dictionary defines it 
as the formation of a mental image of something that is neither perceived as 
real nor present to the senses. It is the art of image formation. It is the image of 
your destination; having the image of where you're going fully printed in your 
mental faculty. This is because your mental picture is what determines your 
future. Remember, For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he... (Prov. 23:7). 
This image formation has its seat in the mind. Ideas are turned into 
pictures in the mind; and these pictures are what create your future. 
===== PDF PAGE 18 =====
God said to Abraham in Genesis 13:14-15:
And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated 
from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where 
thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward:
For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy 
seed for ever.
Imagination is a pace-setter for your destination. As far as your eyes can 
see i s what shall be given to you. Until you see it, God cannot give it. Your 
mind is your God-given asset in setting the pace for your destination. Blessed 
be God's faithfulness, favour and mercies; but there is nothing we are seeing in 
our minis try today that I did not first see.
See the power of imagination in Genesis 11:6:
And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all 
one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be 
restrained from them, which the y have imagined to do.
Imagination is a force for accomplishment. When it is set, God is 
committed, For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he...
So, stop thinking death, God is not a killer! Stop thinking failure, that is 
not your heritage! Stop thinking stagnation, it is not your lot in God! Stop 
thinking lack and want because of your country s economy! You're not your 
country's economist, so what's your business in it? Think straight and you will 
live straight! Think high and you will live high! (Gen. 11:6; 13:14-15).
Cast It Down!
Most of the evils that befall people are traceable to the images they form in
their minds. For instance, a man is involved in an accident, and he says, I 
somehow knew it was coming. And because he did nothing about the negative 
picture formed, it established a negative future for him.
Hear what 2 Corinthians 10:3-5 says:
For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh:
(For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty 
through God to the pulling down of strong holds;)
Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth 
itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity 
===== PDF PAGE 19 =====
every thought to the obedience of Christ;
Strongholds! These include imaginations. What are you expected to do to 
them? Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself above 
the knowledge of Christ.
You are expected to cast down every negative imagination and human 
philosophy that is contrary to the truth. Cast down every strange thought that is 
contrary to what you're standing upon in Christ, every negative doctors report 
and story told you by your grandfather. And when your obedience to this rule is 
complete, you w ill go ahead to avenge all disobedience.
So when a picture of an accident flashes through your mind, you should 
cast it d own! Don't think it will go on it's own. As we have seen from 2 
Corinthians 10:3-5, negative imaginations are strongholds of the devil. They are
able to corrupt an entire destiny and devastate a great future. 
Many live under the spell of negative imaginations all their lives. Certain 
ailments have stayed long in many families because the devil plays around the 
strong hold of imagination. The man s grandfather died of that sickness, so did 
his father. So he too is already expecting it at about the same age at which they 
had it. The picture then comes alive inside his mind, and he doesn't cast it 
down. He doesn't lay hold on the truth to destroy it, so it's his turn to suffer the 
same ailment. 
Friend, every positive imagination establishes a positive destination, 
whereas e very negative imagination establishes a negative destination. 
Therefore, you mus t remain a man of determined imagination, constantly 
seeing what you desire, ref using to embrace what is of the devil.
I couldn't imagine Jesus Christ involved in an accident and people bring 
Him out from under the car wreckage, start pouring water on Him and shouting,
Master! Mast er! Are you still there? And He said, As the Father has sent me, 
even so send I yo u (Jn. 20:21). Since I can't imagine Him in this condition, 
likewise, I can't imagine me in such. I've been declaring boldly for years, If 
there's a crash somewhere, don't look for me there, because I can't be there.
Again, I can't imagine Jesus lying on a hospital bed, for instance, with all 
manner of gadgets attached to His hands and nose, and the pastors go there to 
pray for Him, saying, Master be healed! Since as the Father has sent Him, so 
He has sent me, if I can't imagine Him in a hospital bed, then I can't imagine 
myself in a hospital bed, because greater is He that is in me, than the sickness 
tormenting humanity in the world.
If Jesus were married, I can't imagine Peter, James and John coming to His
home to quell a fight between Him and His wife. Maybe they would say to 
===== PDF PAGE 20 =====
Him, Master, enough, enough. As a result of this, I have long been declaring 
that I can't imagine me slap my wife.
You see, your imagination is so vital in determining your ultimate 
destination in life, For as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Your mental 
picture determines your actual future. So keep your mind with all diligence, for 
out of it are the issues of life (Prov. 4:23). You need to jealously guard your 
mind against every form of negative pollution. Many evils that came upon 
some people didn't come straight from the devil, they came as such people gave
place to the devil through careless imagination and thoughts. 
Some are not married yet, but they are already bothering about whether 
they will have children. Meanwhile, they don't have any medical or 
physiological problems! In fact, when you call out those who are looking for 
the fruit of the womb, they are usually the first to come out. They re not 
married yet, but they re already too sure that they re not likely going to have 
children easily.
Zig Ziglar said, The most powerful nation in the world isn't America after 
all, but imagination. That is, your imagination determines your rating in the 
world. For instance, a minister of the gospel will never see a big congregation 
until he st arts imagining one. You ll never see a big business until you have a 
picture of on e. Your imagination sets the pace for your destination, so watch it!
If your mind is fully utilized in carrying out these functions learning, 
understanding, reasoning, and imagination then you will be set for your high 
place on the earth.
===== PDF PAGE 21 =====
CHAPTER 3: 
THE REALITY OF 
SUPERNATURAL MENTALITY
Supernatural placement in the kingdom of God is a function of the 
operation of a supernatural mentality. 
In Daniel chapter five, we are told the story of King Belshazzar who saw a 
handwriting on the wall and called in the astrologers, Chaldeans and 
soothsayers to give the interpretation. But none of them all could read the 
writing or make know n to the king the interpretation of it. Then the queen 
came in and said: There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the 
holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and understanding and wisdom, 
like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar
thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers,
Chaldeans, and soothsayers;
Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and 
understanding, interpreting of dreams, and showing of hard 
sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, 
whom the king named Belshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he 
will show the interpretation.
Daniel 5:11-12
This woman knew the source of the operation of this supernatural 
mentality in Daniel, she knew that it was not natural. 
When Daniel was called in, the king said to him: 
I have even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is in thee, and 
that light and understanding and excellent wisdom is found in thee.
Daniel 5:14
Daniel, of course, gave the interpretation of the writing, and: 
Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet,
and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation 
===== PDF PAGE 22 =====
concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.
Daniel 5:29
Oh, the reality of supernatural mentality!
IT EMPOWERS
We are told in 1 Corinthians 4:20 that the kingdom of God is not just in 
words, but in power and demonstration of the Spirit of God. It takes being 
empowered to be a bonafide citizen of the kingdom. Your citizenship is 
validated by empowerment.
What is empowerment? It is a noun from the word empower, which means
to invest wit h power, especially legal power or official authority. The Bible 
says in John 1: 12:
But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the 
sons of God, even to them that believe on his name:
As many as received Jesus, to them He gave power to become, manifest 
and operate as sons of God. So empowerment is a requirement for you to earn 
your placement in the kingdom. Without power, you don't have a place in the 
kingdom SOURCE OF EMPOWERMENT
The Holy Spirit is the principal source of divine empowerment.
But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon 
you: and ye s hall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in 
all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the 
earth.
Acts 1:8
It is very clear, therefore, that the Spirit of God is our covenant instrument 
f or supernatural empowerment. He was at work in Joseph, Daniel and Peter, 
and the y all operated above the natural sphere.
Supernatural empowerment is to enable you to fully represent Jesus 
witnessing to the reality of His resurrection, representing His kingdom with 
colour, beauty, power and authority. That Scripture means, You shall reflect and
===== PDF PAGE 23 =====
represent Me bo ily. The Holy Ghost will empower you to operate in My class.
Jesus said to His disciples in Luke 24:49:
And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry 
ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on 
high.
So until you are empowered, your place is not guaranteed. This 
empowerment by the Holy Spirit impacts the three realms of a man his spirit, 
soul (where his mind is located) and his body.
He energizes you for supernatural feats such as healings, deliverances, 
casting out devils and taking your place in the realm of the spirit. Jesus said in 
Isaiah 61:1-3:
The spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hath 
anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me 
to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, 
and the opening of the prison to them that are bound;
To proclaim the acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of 
vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn;
To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty
for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the 
spirit of heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, 
the planting of the LORD, that he might be glorified.
The Holy Spirit makes you take your place in the world of the spirit, by 
empowering your spirit man for dominion.
Talking about the seven-dimensional ministry of the Holy Spirit in Isaiah 
11, the Bible says that among other things, He will make you of quick 
understanding. H is empowerment also affects the soul positively. He quickens 
your mentality and empowers your mental faculty for supernatural exploits. He 
quickens your understanding, so you don't judge after the sight of your eyes nor
after the hearing of y our ears. Rather, your understanding will go beyond the 
natural sphere. Remember also what the Bible says in Romans 8:11: 
But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in 
you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your 
mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.
===== PDF PAGE 24 =====
So, if you carry the fresh oil of the Holy Spirit, you enjoy fresh health. 
That scripture says, he will quicken your mortal body. Every truly anointed 
person enjoys fresh health. The fresher the oil, the healthier you live. When you
change the engine oil in your car for instance, your engine comes alive afresh. 
The sound becomes more comely and satisfactory. 
The Holy Spirit is the One that quickens. There is one Spirit (Eph. 4:4). 
The same Spirit that raised Christ from the dead is the same One that quickens 
your mortal body, energizing it to function perfectly. Empowerment is not 
limited to only one realm. It covers all the realms of your existence. 
Mental empowerment will guarantee you supernatural placement on this 
earth. That is going to happen for you by the time you're through reading this 
book, in Jesus name.
In the New Testament, when the Holy Ghost came upon Peter, he was 
transformed in to another man. That delivery he made in Acts 2, on the day of 
Pentecost, couldn't have been that of an ignorant and unlearned man. That was 
supernatural intelligence at work! Spurred on and triggered off by the infusion 
of the Holy Ghost int o his mentality. He stood up and delivered a message he 
hadn't made any preparations for, and with absolute precision, with names and 
dates mentioned with unbelievable accuracy. And in thirty minutes, he had 
started a church, with 3,000 converts!
How? He simply exploded in mental dignity through a definite mental 
empowerment by the Holy Ghost. You are the next to explode mentally!
The Holy Ghost is the Spirit of excellence. He is the One called the 
excellent spirit that indwelled Daniel (Dan. 6:3). He is the spirit of wisdom, 
counsel, knowledge and understanding. He's everything that makes for mental 
prowess, dignity and excellence. The Bible says:
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your 
children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy 
Spirit to them that ask him? 
Luke 11:13
This is your chance for supernatural mental empowerment. This is your 
chance to escape the ordinary sphere of life, into the supernatural realm, where 
you will stand far above your peers, and far up there in the sky! 
Isaiah 55:1 invites everyone that thirsts to come and freely drink of the 
water of life. John 7:37-39 makes us understand that the Holy Spirit is the One 
being referred to.
===== PDF PAGE 25 =====
The Holy Spirit distinguished Peter (the ignorant and unlearned 
fisherman), such that he became a celebrity in his generation. It is now your 
turn! It is your t urn to be brought out of that prison, and to find your way to 
your palace, to en joy your true placement in the kingdom.
Approach the throne of grace now, for supernatural mental empowerment 
by a fresh release of the Holy Ghost upon your life. Be determined for an 
encounter. You must have your own touch today. Go for it now!
===== PDF PAGE 26 =====
CHAPTER 4:
YOUR MIND IS THE 
SEAT OF WISDOM
Wisdom is the correct application of knowledge. It is the last step in the 
thinking process, after which action follows.
Knowledge says, Surely He has borne my sicknesses and carried my pains.
Himself took my infirmity and bore my diseases, and by His stripes, I was 
healed. Understanding then comes along and says, If He has already borne your
sicknesses, then you're not sick! Wisdom then says, If you're not sick, then stop 
feeling sick! Stop looking and acting sick, if you must ever get well.
It's a process. You have taken delivery of the fact, you have understood it, 
and now you want to benefit from it; that s where wisdom comes in. A lot of 
people know that He took their infirmity, but they are still sick. What wisdom 
does is to dictate the steps to be taken, that will help you draw out the benefits 
that know ledge delivered to you. 
Knowledge delivers the existence of the provision, understanding helps 
you to see the reality of that provision, and wisdom helps you to enjoy its 
benefits. All these stages are functions of the mind. The mind is where 
knowledge is acquired, it is the place of understanding, and also the seat of 
wisdom.
Now, think on this: The Bible says: 
For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he 
was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his 
poverty might be rich. 
2 Corinthians 8:9
Knowledge says, This provision is made available in redemption. 
Somebody took your place in poverty, so you can now enjoy plenty. The issue 
then is, How do I get out of poverty?
This is where understanding comes in. It is understanding that helps you to
appreciate the reality of that provision. It says, It takes a covenant walk to come
out of poverty. And what is the covenant? Seedtime and harvest shall not cease. 
How does it function? It functions through a giving lifestyle.
===== PDF PAGE 27 =====
But you may give and give, and yet not get anything. Wisdom then comes 
in and says, You will need to take the following steps, in order to experience the
reality of prosperity. And as soon as you take the steps, you're on the prosperity 
flight! It's a process, that goes from one to the other. Wisdom tells me I'm not 
only called upon to give, but also to create avenues through which God's 
blessings in response to my giving, will get to me. I must work with my hands, 
for the Bible says, And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper (Ps. 1:3). So, I start 
working, to create channels for God's blessings to flow back to me. 
This is the operation of wisdom in your mentality.
DIVINE WISDOM
Divine wisdom is able to cut down to one year, a journey that would have 
taken ten years. 
Divine wisdom guarantees the flow of divine ideas, which is your 
guarantee for a unique placement in life. When you operate with an idea from 
heaven, you are bound to command a heavenly kind of results. 
Many years ago, He touched my mentality, and that touch was so intense 
and profound that I exclaimed, Lord, I'm understanding this thing too much!
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of 
God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past 
finding out!
Romans 11:33
It may interest you to know that most of the big brains on the international 
scene today, are not committed Christians. They are just free-lance natural 
Christians. But I see the Church taking over!
The reality of divine wisdom can be seen in Job 28:
There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's eye
hath not seen:
The lion's whelps have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by 
it. He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the 
mountains by the roots.
He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every 
precious thing. He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and the 
===== PDF PAGE 28 =====
thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light.
But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of 
understanding? Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it 
found in the land of the living.
The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saith, It is not with me. It 
cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof.
It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the 
sapphire.
The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it shall not be
for jewels of fine gold.
No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price of wisdom is 
above rubies.
Job 28:7-18
Those who operate in this wisdom don't live with obstacles. It 
guarantees unending triumphs and a continuous humiliation of 
obstacles, because of the higher insight it offers. 
Divine wisdom has an unlimited ability to deliver results, notwithstanding 
the conditions. For instance, divine wisdom can generate a bumper harvest in 
famine (Gen. 26:1-12). 
With divine wisdom, you can beat any sinner to it, because you are in 
absolute and perfect command. Pharaoh literally surrendered his throne to the 
display of Joseph s divine wisdom (Gen. 41:38-46). Friend, divine wisdom can 
pave a supernatural way to the top for you! That is God's great plan for you. 
Do you know that this wisdom also delivers peace? That is because it can 
see trouble far ahead of time, and take steps to deal with it. So while the trouble
is still preparing to trouble you, you have dealt with it.
Divine wisdom naturally announces its carrier. In Solomon s time, people 
came from far and near to hear his wisdom. And during Jesus earthly ministry, 
His fame spread abroad by reason of divine wisdom He operated in. 
The wisdom of God at work in Joseph announced him too. While he was 
still in prison, he was announced in the palace!
Supernatural wisdom is a reality! The New Testament calls it the wisdom 
of God (1 Cor. 2:7). It is His ordained device for making us stand out in the 
===== PDF PAGE 29 =====
crowd.
This kind of wisdom has never been seen or heard of. God only reveals it 
by His Spirit (1 Cor. 2:10). By delivering to you supernatural insights, you are 
able to tap into the things that are freely yours. 
Divine wisdom is a reality, and it's available to all. It is the heritage of all 
w ho are redeemed (Matt. 11:19). It is available, accessible, can be operated, 
and always stands clearly above all other levels of wisdom.
DIFFERENT LEVELS OF WISDOM
James identifies four kinds of wisdom in James 3:15. There is the earthly 
wisdom that is, common sense, which you are born with. An example is how to 
eat. You don't have to go to school to acquire it.
There is also the sensual wisdom, which has to do with the intellect. It can 
also be called intellectual wisdom. 
Another kind is the devilish wisdom. This is the wisdom diabolical people 
and occultic forces operate in.
The fourth is wisdom from above. This one is far above the other forms of 
wisdom. Let's see it in operation in Daniel chapter 2:
And in the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar 
Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, wherewith his spirit was 
troubled, and his sleep brake from him. Then the king commanded 
to call the magicians, and the astrologers, and the sorcerers, and 
the Chaldeans, for to show the king his dreams. So they came and 
stood before the king.
And the king said unto them, I have dreamed a dream, and my 
spirit was troubled to know the dream.
The Chaldeans answered before the king, and said, There is not a 
man upon the earth that can show the king's matter: therefore 
there is no king, lord, nor ruler, that asked such things at any 
magician, or astrologer, or Chaldean. And it is a rare thing that the 
king requireth, and there is none other that can show it before the 
king, except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh. Then Daniel 
went in, and desired of the king that he would give him time, and 
that he would show the king the interpretation.
Daniel answered in the presence of the king, and said, The secret 
which the king hath demanded cannot the wise men, the 
===== PDF PAGE 30 =====
astrologers, the magicians, the soothsayers, show unto the king;
But there is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets, and maketh 
known to the kin g Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter 
days. Thy dream, and the visions of thy head upon thy bed, are 
these;
Daniel 2:1-3,10-11,16,27-28
Here we see a practical demonstration of the wisdom from above. Daniel 
said, But there is a God in heaven that revealeth secret... This verse goes to 
establish the supremacy of divine wisdom. It exists, it is real!
Paul said this wisdom is not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of
this world, that come to nought (1 Cor. 2:6). That is, when put side by side 
divine wisdom, those other levels of wisdom equal zero. Divine wisdom is not 
earthly, it's not intellectual, neither is it diabolical. When Daniel operated this 
wisdom, he stood far above the astrologers, magicians and sorcerers of his time.
Hear me: you have access to greater secrets than any philosopher, witch or 
intellectual! You are not to operate in the realm of common sense, because you 
belong to a heavenly order. You have access to the highest order of wisdom. 
That should get you angry with stagnation, frustration, failure and defeat.
You need to make this declaration: I am connected to the highest order of 
wisdom, I cannot afford to be stranded on the earth. What I operate with is from
above, so my results should be clearly above what operates here on earth.
Daniel's life indeed proves the reality of divine wisdom among mortal 
men. He was so full of it that he could lord it over all the philosophers, 
sorcerers and astrologers. He simply stood out! But where did he get it from?
GOD GIVES IT
As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in 
all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all 
visions and dreams.
Daniel 1:17
God gave them... The wisdom that operated in Daniel had its source in 
God. He is the true source of wisdom. Job 28:20 asks:
Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of 
understanding?
===== PDF PAGE 31 =====
It is available and obtainable only from God. You can't get it from the 
market, no matter how much money you've got or are willing to pay. Anything 
extraordinary must have an extraordinary source, because like begets like. 
Please note that I'm not talking about common sense, which is common to 
everybody, neither am I talking about intellectual sense, that can be acquired 
with money by going to school. I'm talking about heaven's sense. 
Let me show you something in 1 Kings 4:29-31:
And God GA VE SOLOMON WISDOM and understanding 
exceeding much, and largeness of h eart, even as the sand that is on
the sea shore.
And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of 
the east country, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and 
Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round 
about. Solomon s wisdom was before the Holy Ghost came fully on the earth. 
Jesus told us that a greater than Solomon is here. He said the greatest of all born
of woman i s John the Baptist, but that the least in the kingdom of heaven is 
still greater than him. That is, John was greater than Solomon, whom God gave 
wisdom. Therefore, you are by implication greater than both of them, because 
you are under a better covenant! 
I see God bringing you into the realm of supernatural mental 
empowerment that will cause every area of your life to break forth! 
Divine wisdom commands practical proofs. When it operated in Joseph, it 
was relevant in the earthly realm. It promoted him and caused him to enjoy 
upliftment, enlargement, peace, pleasantness and liberty. Divine wisdom is not 
rhetoric, it i s practical, and God is its source.
Requirements For Divine Wisdom
There are four fundamental requirements for flowing in divine wisdom. 
They are: Salvation
Divine wisdom is limited to the redeemed of the Lord. Jesus said, Wisdom 
is justified of her children (Matt. 11:19).
===== PDF PAGE 32 =====
Fear Of God
Another requirement is living in the fear of God, living to please 
Him. The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but 
fools despise wisdom and instruction.
Proverbs 1:7 
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the 
knowledge of the holy is understanding.
Proverbs 9:10
Living to please God is a requirement for flowing in divine wisdom. In 
Daniel 1:8, we are told that Daniel purposed in his heart not to defile himself; 
he was out to please God. 
The fear of God is not living in dread and trembling when you hear of 
God, it is living to please God as a lifestyle, living unto His pleasure, thus 
fulfilling your purpose for existence.
Joseph lived in the fear of God, no wonder he was a carrier of divine 
wisdom. He said in Genesis 42:18, For I fear God. 
Hear what Job 28:28 says: 
And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom;
and to depart from evil is understanding.
To depart from evil is your only access to this wisdom. The price for this 
wisdom is the fear of the Lord. It is the beginning and the end of wisdom. It is 
the only way both to get and to retain wisdom. 
Friend, divine wisdom is not obtainable from schools, neither is it 
available in certificates. It demands the fear of the Lord as a lifestyle.
We see from scriptures that the two men noted for divine wisdom (Joseph 
and Daniel) were men who displayed in unmistakable terms the virtues of 
divine wisdom. They both lived a life style of fear and reverence for the Lord. 
As a result, they not only operated in the wisdom of God, they sustained it. That
is why I said the fear of the Lord is not only the beginning of wisdom, but also 
the end of it it is the author and finisher of divine wisdom.
Also, Paul the apostle who was an embodiment of wisdom in the New 
===== PDF PAGE 33 =====
Testament said, Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly and 
unblamably we have behaved ourselves among you all that believed (1 Thes. 
2:10).
The fear of the Lord was Paul s way of life, no wonder God gave him 
unusual access to divine wisdom. Even Peter acknowledged that Paul s wisdom
was in a class of it's own (2 Pet. 3:15-16). This same Paul said in Acts 24:16:
And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of
offence toward God, and toward men.
An established fear of God is at the root of divine wisdom. 
Meekness
The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his
way. 
Psalm 25:9
Meekness is required, to get anything from God. Ahitophel had so much 
wisdom, such that all the counsel he gave were as though they were directly 
from God. They were always accepted. But when one day his counsel was 
rejected, he hung himself (2 Sam. 17:23). The flow of divine wisdom stops 
where meekness stops. That s why Jeremiah 9:23 says:
Thus saith the LORD, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, 
neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man 
glory in his riches: 
We need meekness to maintain the flow of divine wisdom. 
Daniel admitted that he was not smarter than others, that God simply chose
to unfold the secret to him. But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for 
any wisdom that I have more than any living, but for their sakes that shall make
known the interpretation to the king, and that thou mightest know the thoughts 
of thy heart. Daniel 2:30
It takes this dimension of meekness to maintain the flow of divine wisdom.
It won't stop flowing as long as you acknowledge its source. 
===== PDF PAGE 34 =====
The Holy Spirit
The help of the Holy Spirit is one of the fundamental requirements for 
flowing in divine wisdom. You must continually bank on the help of the Holy 
Spirit, to enhance your flow in divine wisdom. This is because He came from 
heaven to represent heaven's wisdom in our mortal being.
===== PDF PAGE 35 =====
CHAPTER 5: 
PRODUCTS OF DIVINE WISDOM
Divine wisdom enhances our mentality and manifests in various ways. 
Here are some of the ways it manifests:
CREATIVITY
The first manifestation of divine wisdom was in creativity.
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face
of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
Genesis 1:1-3
Divine wisdom releases creative abilities to your mentality. It gives you 
the ability to bring into being the things that hitherto did not exist, not allowing 
you to be stranded in life.
The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding 
hath he established the heavens.
Proverbs 3:19
O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made 
them all: the earth is full of thy riches.
Psalm 104:24
These scriptures prove that divine wisdom communicates creative virtues. 
God's wisdom is behind the creation of the world. 
Creativity is the ability to tread realms that no one else has treaded before 
and still get results. It's also the ability to operate as a pace-setter in your cal 
===== PDF PAGE 36 =====
ling and endeavour in life. 
You need God's creative abilities, and I command it to begin to find 
expression in your life from now on, in Jesus name!
Describing this wisdom, Job said,...And his eye seeth every precious thing 
(Job 2 8:10). Who told you that everything needed has been created? That s not 
true. We re heirs of God and joint-heirs with Jesus Christ.
And the Bible says, By Him were all things made... So we are to join Him 
in the continuous process of creation right here on earth. That was what Jacob 
did in Genesis 30. He created what he needed to beat Laban to his tricks.
Friend, God's wisdom is able to find creative expression through you. You 
may have nothing to do with engineering, technology or computers, but when 
the creative abilities of God begin to find expression in you, it shows wherever 
you go! You can become original in your approach to your task. You can 
become productively creative, applying a different approach to your task. You 
cannot be despised, because of the results that will speak for themselves.
Divine wisdom is creative in nature. It's not afraid to take new steps. It 
initiates and mobilizes for new steps. Behold I do a new thing... (Isa. 43:19) is 
the philosophy of divine wisdom. It constantly initiates new things. 
Consequently, you will always win the commendation of your boss (if you're 
working for someone), because you have a creative approach to your work.
I've always said to people, If you leave your job the way it was given to 
you, you're not better than a machine! They could have as well put a machine 
on the job, because it can't think. But when you're creative in your approach to 
your job, there's no way people will not be attracted to you.
Creativity enhances your productivity on the job. It helps you not to 
expend so much energy and sweat, as you have a better approach.
EXPLOITS
The wisdom of God also communicates and generates exploits and 
mighty works. And when he was come into his own country, he 
taught them in their synagogue, in somuch that they were 
astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these 
mighty works?
Matthew 13:54
===== PDF PAGE 37 =====
And when the sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the 
synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From 
whence hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which 
is given unto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his 
hands?
Mark 6:2
When you operate in divine wisdom, you are able to generate exploits. 
Mighty works are direct products of divine wisdom; you are able to produce 
results that cannot be denied by natural men a peaceful family life, progressive 
business, outstanding finances, everything about you is just unique!
Mighty works are products of a mighty source divine wisdom.
AUTHORITY
Divine wisdom also delivers to you authority over the forces of darkness. 
It imbues its possessor with the command that he needs. Look at Jesus here:
 When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were 
possessed with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and
healed all that were sick: 
Matthew 8:16
He gave them wisdom knockouts!
Divine wisdom puts you in command of the challenges of life. This is the 
wisdom that says, by me kings reign and princes decree justice... (Prov. 8:15). It
carries authority, delivering to you supernatural answers to life s bugging 
questions and authority over all devils.
We saw Jesus casting out evil spirits with His words. He wasn't just talking
them out of people nor was He praying them out, He was ordering them out!
There's a level of wisdom that will order the devil out of any place (Matt. 
8:28-3 2). And in verse 26, He rebuked the wind and the storm, and there was a 
great calm.
Divine wisdom put Daniel in charge. The king put all the magicians, 
Chaldeans, astrologers and sorcerers under him. He was far above them by 
reason of divine endowment. 
===== PDF PAGE 38 =====
JOY
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth 
understanding.
 Proverbs 3:13
Friend, divine wisdom also communicates joy unspeakable, full of glory (1
Pet. 1:8). It causes you to be on top all the time. You always have a reason to be
excited, even in the midst of challenges. That excitement is what opens you up 
to mental excellence, because, with joy shall ye draw water out of the well of 
salvation (Isa. 12:3).
Divine wisdom communicates the virtue of joy, and the Bible says, Happy 
is everyone that retaineth her. So when divine wisdom is at work in you, joy 
unspeakable i s unending and unlimited in you. And when there is joy, there is 
health, and when there is health, long life is guaranteed.
WEALTH
Wealth is a product of wits. Talking about wisdom, Proverbs 3:16 says:
Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and 
honour.
 The wisest Being in the entire universe is also the wealthiest Being God. 
The Bible calls Him the only wise God. There is no one else in His class! The 
Bible also tells us that the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof, and all 
that dwell in it (Ps. 24:1). That means God owns everything we have, including 
ourselves. 
For instance, how wealthy are the chickens in your poultry farm? If you 
own a farm, both the chickens and all their wealth are yours. Likewise, both 
you and everything you own are God's. You're created for His pleasure, because
you're in His farm. Solomon, the wisest man that lived in his time, was also the 
wealthiest man in h is time. No wonder somebody said that wealth is the 
product of man s capacity to think. Wealth is a product of wits, a product of 
man s Intelligence Quotient (IQ). According to Proverbs 15:13-16, a man of 
===== PDF PAGE 39 =====
wisdom is a happy, healthy and rich man. He will also naturally enjoy honour. 
PLEASANTNESS AND PEACE
Divine wisdom guarantees a pressure-free life. The Bible says concerning 
wisdom that her ways are ways of pleasantness (Prov. 3:17). 
Divine wisdom frees men from pressures, bringing them into pleasures. So
when yo u see pressure mounting, there is something reducing somewhere. 
When you see pressure mounting, it's an indication that divine wisdom is 
receding, because divine wisdom does not walk along the same path as 
pressures. Instead, the Bible tells us,... and all her paths are peace.
God gave Solomon rest on every side, so that there was no adversary or 
evil occurrence all through his reign as king. This was because he operated in 
divine wisdom. That s going to be your experience from today peace all the 
time, in Jesus name! 
Pressure is of the devil. He gathers pressure around you so he can steal 
your blessings and rob you of your substance. I command every Satan-gathered
pressure o n your life to disappear now, in Jesus name!
DOMINION
The wisdom of God also guarantees dominion over the forces of 
wickedness. It was divine wisdom that made Daniel master over the Chaldeans,
astrologers, magician s, sorcerers, witches and wizards. Divine wisdom put him
in command. In Isaiah 1 1:9 the Bible tells us:
They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: for the 
earth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD, as the waters 
cover the sea.
The wisdom of God is able to destroy all hurts, evils, regrets, failures and 
def eats! When this wisdom came upon Solomon, God gave him rest on every 
side. No mo re shall anyone hear of evil occurrence in your own habitation too, 
in Jesus name!
===== PDF PAGE 40 =====
ANSWERS
Divine wisdom delivers answers to life s probing questions. The Bible said
concerning Jesus that the doctors were astounded at His understanding and 
answers (Lk. 2:47).
No matter the question, divine wisdom has an answer. Who will God refer 
a question to anyway? 
When the wisdom of God is flowing freely in you from insights, it will 
always generate the answers to those probing questions of your life. It has a 
ready and supernatural answer to any question of life.
All the doctors of law and Pharisees sat around Jesus, and couldn't match 
His wits. His answers were far above their realm! He levelled out their 
questions without any stress. And they knew it wasn't coming from an ordinary 
source.
All these virtues are expressed in divine wisdom long life, riches, 
pleasantness, happiness, creativity, exploits, joy, dominion, etc. They are just 
some of the products of divine wisdom listed in Proverbs chapter 3. 
I d like you to pray this prayer with me: Lord, I want to see these virtues 
find practical expression in my life.
Without divine wisdom, no matter how much money you have, you will 
still live under pressure. I've met quite a lot of rich people, but who still live 
under so much stress, that you wonder what they are really running after. They 
lack wisdom and the correct perspective to life, because they don't know God. 
A rich man wants to do something that will cost him maybe 16 million 
naira, and then you find him going from house to house, begging and soliciting 
for help. If you ask him how much he has in hand, he might tell you he has 10 
million naira. When you say to him, Okay, go ahead and do something with 
what you have now, he would say, No! I must do this one of 16 million naira. 
That s a foolish man! God's wisdom bailed me out many years ago, when I 
made up my mind that no condition under heaven would bring me to the point 
where I would need to borrow. It is paying off for me today. If borrowing 
becomes your habit, then lying would have dominion over you. May you be 
free from the foolishness of debt!
Most of the troubles of man are all self-caused. Many people have died of 
the pl ague of debt, only it doesn't show in the autopsy carried out! What the 
doctors see is high blood pressure; but the truth is that he died from debt-
pressure! Friend, it's great to be debt-free. In case you're under any debt 
problem now, receive wisdom to be out of it once and for all, in Jesus name!
God's wisdom is full of good fruits, so look out for it!
===== PDF PAGE 41 =====
IT CAN BE LOST
And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom, as he promised him...
1 Kings 5:12
But you ll discover that a time came when Solomon s wisdom was turned 
to foolishness. The Bible says in Proverbs 3:13:
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth 
understanding.
 Verse 18 says:
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is 
every one that retaineth her.
Happy is every one that retaineth her. But from what Solomon said in 
Ecclesiastes 1:18, you'll discover that he lost it!
For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth 
knowledge increaseth sorrow.
His joy was gone. He had tried everything to make himself happy, but 
happiness wasn't forth coming. Solomon lost it, and his beauty and dignity were
reduced to vanity. Vanity of vanities, he lamented, all is vanity (Eccl. 1:2). That 
is, What is the benefit of life? At that point in time, he had completely lost his 
mentality. HOW?
When Solomon changed his God, God turned His back on him. His 
journey to changing his God began with his losing his wisdom. Let me trace his
journey from grace and glory to grass.
In 1 Kings 3:3 we are told:
And Solomon loved the Lord...
First Kings 4:29 says:
And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding 
===== PDF PAGE 42 =====
much, and largeness of h eart, even as the sand that is on the sea 
shore.
First Kings 3:3 tells us the foundation of Solomon s relationship with God,
while 1 Kings 4:29 shows us the benefit of that relationship. See the effect of 
the wisdom God gave him in 1 Kings 5:4:
But now the LORD my God hath given me rest on every side, so 
that there is neither adversary nor evil occurrent.
Solomon enjoyed rest as a result of the divine wisdom given him, because 
her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
Solomon got very involved with God and the things of His kingdom. He 
built the tabernacle, which he dedicated amidst such glory from heaven. But 
then came a sudden switch along the line.
But king Solomon loved many strange women, together with the 
daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, 
Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites;
Of the nations concerning which the LORD said unto the children 
of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them, neither shall they come in unto 
you: for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods: 
Solomon clave unto these in love. And he had seven hundred wives, 
princesses, and three hundred concubines: and his wives turned 
away his heart.
For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned 
away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with 
the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.
And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because his heart was 
turned from the LORD God of Israel, which had appeared unto 
him twice,
And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not 
go after other gods: but he kept not that which the LORD 
commanded.
1 Kings 11:1-4,9-10
===== PDF PAGE 43 =====
When Solomon loved the Lord, God was with him and he enjoyed peace 
round about, such that there was no evil occurent around him. But when 
Solomon began to love many strange women instead of God, God got angry 
with him and withdrew His wisdom from him. In the place of peace, God 
stirred up an adversary against Solomon, and he lost control. 
And the LORD stirred up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the 
Edomite: he was of the king's seed in Edom.
And God stirred him up another adversary, Rezon the son of 
Eliadah, which fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah:
And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, beside 
the mischief that Hadad did: and he abhorred Israel, and reigned 
over Syria.
1 Kings 11:14,23,25
Solomon the wisest suddenly became the most foolish till the end of his 
life. He changed his God, and God turned His back on him.
One of the devil s greatest tools of defilement is pride. The moment things 
begin to work and results begin to come, the tendency is to begin to kiss your 
palm in the secret and say to yourself, No one else except me. If I were not 
there, would it have worked?
That was how God withdrew Ahitophel s wisdom. In the days of David the
king, consulting Ahitophel was like consulting the Almighty Himself. But the 
day his counsel was rejected, he went and hung himself. You know suicide is 
the height of madness? At that point in time, Ahitophel was the most foolish 
human being on planet earth. He lost his wisdom to self and pride (2 Sam. 17). 
Wherever you will get to in life that will make you change your God, it is 
my prayer that God will never allow you to get there! The wealth that will make
you change your God, may your hand never touch it! That position that will 
make you change your God, may you never get there!
I have told God, Don't try me with what will hurt me. don't bless me with 
what will become a curse in my hands. Just leave me where you think is safest 
for me. Whatever will make my head get bigger than it is, don't let it reach my 
hand. 
===== PDF PAGE 44 =====
KEEP THE TREASURE!
Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of 
God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.
For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of 
love, and of a sound mind.
That good thing which was committed unto thee keep by the Holy 
Ghost which dwelleth in us.
2 Timothy 1:6-7,14
A great treasure of wisdom has been deposited into your system; it is, 
therefore, your responsibility to keep it by the Holy Ghost. The devil is envious 
of that great treasure of divine wisdom on your inside. So, engage the services 
of the Holy Ghost in you to retain this gift of a sound mind delivered to you. It 
will not work with the crooked, perverse, proud, nor with the defiled. It will 
only be sustained by those who live in the fear of the Lord.
Jesus was a successful carrier of divine wisdom throughout His time. The 
scriptures described Him as the wisdom and power of God (1 Cor. 1:24). He 
also had the Spirit without measure (Jn. 3:34), and Romans 1:4 says He was 
declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness.
No crooked or perverse Christian has a future. It takes integrity to earn 
dignity. The fear of the Lord is what constantly puts you on your toes. The 
things that Solomon lost by changing his God, all the money he had could not 
restore back to him. He couldn't get his joy, peace and pleasantness back. 
The fear of the Lord is your greatest security in your Christian adventure. 
Solomon started his journey as the wisest, but ended as the most foolish. Joseph
mad e it! Daniel, Apostle Paul and Jesus made it! You are going to make it too! 
That good thing that is committed unto you, keep by the Holy Ghost that dwells
in you.
Hear this again: divine wisdom is a reality. Supernatural intelligence is a 
reality. May you be ready to accept responsibility to keep and develop it. Say 
with me: I am committed to accept responsibility both to keep and develop the 
wisdom deposit of God inside me. Holy Spirit, help me to keep this treasure all 
through the remaining days of my life.
If you can successfully carry this wisdom treasure the one from above, 
ordained for your glory, which glorifies its carrier, causing him/her to come out 
of obscurity into the limelight you will emerge a natural star on the earth. When
God begins to show you the steps to take, you can't be compared with any 
===== PDF PAGE 45 =====
natural man, no matter the effort he puts in. One striking insight, like I said, is 
worth much more in value than a life time of struggles.
May you remain committed to the responsibility of retaining and 
developing God's deposit of divine wisdom in you, all the days of your life.
===== PDF PAGE 46 =====
CHAPTER 6: 
THE PLACE OF INSPIRATION
The highest order of mental excellence is accessible by inspiration. 
Inspiration is the master key to supernatural intelligence. It is your connection 
to supernatural mental empowerment, as it empowers you to perform 
supernatural feats, by granting you insight into supernatural depths. Without 
inspiration, there is no genius, as ingenuity is a direct product of inspiration.
But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty 
giveth them understanding.
Job 32:8
Supernatural intelligence is a product of inspiration. Joseph knew how to 
preserve food for fourteen years without the use of chemicals (Gen. 41:48-
49,53-54,56). Isaac knew how to get bountiful harvest without rain through 
inspiration (Gen. 26:1-12). Inspiration helped Jacob to rear the colour of cattle 
he desired, without a university degree in veterinary medicine or a research 
institute (Gen. 30:37-43). It wasn't a trial and error experiment; he knew what 
he was doing and what the outcome would be. That was supernatural insight.
Jesus was to feed 5,000 people in a barren desert place, and the Bible said, 
He himself knew what he would do (Jn. 6:6).
Inspiration, not mental exertion, is the master-key to a world of 
supernatural intelligence. It is your vital link with divine wisdom. It makes the 
difference! 
WHAT IS INSPIRATION?
For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man 
which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but 
the Spirit of God. 
1 Corinthians 2:11
I have defined inspiration as the Spirit of God in motion in the mental 
===== PDF PAGE 47 =====
faculty of a man. It is the movement of the Holy Spirit in a man s mental 
faculties. It is your connection to divine wisdom. Look at what happened at 
creation. In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face
of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.
Genesis 1:1-3
As the Spirit of God moved upon the deep, the wisdom of God came on 
the scene, to accomplish the work of creation. 
The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding 
hath he established the heavens.
Proverbs 3:19
O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made 
them all: the earth is full of thy riches.
Psalm 104:24
God's creative ability was released as His Spirit moved upon the deep. See 
the beauty of creation today!
Inspiration is the movement of the Spirit of the living God in your mental 
region. Inspiration spirit in motion! It is a supernatural energizing of your 
mental faculty.
God's wisdom is packaged in the Bible, which was delivered to man via 
the channel of inspiration, not intellectualism.
All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for 
doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in 
righteousness:
2 Timothy 3:16
In Luke 11:49 Jesus said, Therefore also said the wisdom of God..., 
referring to the Bible.
===== PDF PAGE 48 =====
I disagree completely with philosophers who claim that a genius is made 
from 99% perspiration and 1% inspiration. Every true discovery came by an 
inner movement. Without that 1%, the 99% will be equal to zero! Inspiration is 
the covenant catalyst that makes the reaction take place at all. So if that 1% is 
not there, there's no reaction, and if there's no reaction, everything else is zero. 
The movement of the Spirit within your mental region is what generates 
supernatural intelligence. I have made some discoveries in the Christian faith 
that were not from any book. The Spirit of God in motion in my mental region 
gave birth to them. There are theories I have propounded in the Christian faith 
that you won't find in any book except the ones I wrote. They are inventions, 
but because they are not scientific inventions, they don't have physical 
products, so to speak. But they certainly do have human products men and 
women who authenticate these theories.
Those discoveries were not inside me before, but the Spirit of God in 
motion inside my mental faculty gave birth to them. That s why you must camp
with God and live within the sphere of inspiration, so you can flow in 
supernatural intelligence.
Inspiration has nothing to do with a man s age. No wonder Elihu said:
I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach 
wisdom.
But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty 
giveth them understanding.
Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand 
judgment. 
Job 32:7-9
The breath of the Almighty is it! I would like you to make this declaration:
Spirit of God, begin to move inside me now. Move me out of every mental 
blockage, in to the realms of mental enlargement.
God's ways are higher than your ways (Isa. 55:8). So, it takes the 
movement of the Spirit of God in your mental faculty to connect with this 
higher level of wisdom. When you do things under inspiration, you become like
an expert, and the whole world will start gazing at you in amazement, saying 
What a fantastic man! No, he's not fantastic, he only has a fantastic Spirit 
moving on his inside. He's an ordinary man like anybody else, but has the 
movement of a fantastic Spirit in his mental region, enabling him to generate 
fantastic, enviable and humbling results! Friend, mental intelligence can only 
become a reality via the instrument of inspiration.
===== PDF PAGE 49 =====
HOW TO GENERATE INSPIRATION
Smith Wigglesworth is quoted as saying, If the Spirit does not move me, 
I'll move the Spirit. There is what to do to get the Spirit of God moving on your
inside. 
SINGING
When you sing, what you are doing is working up the Spirit of God inside 
you. So, to receive inspiration for the day, as soon as you wake up in the 
morning, start singing.
Prophet Elisha used this instrument when he was in dire need of divine 
inspiration to handle a pressing national issue that was brought to him.
But now bring me a minstrel. And it came to pass, when the 
minstrel played, that the hand of the LORD came upon him.
2 Kings 3:15
You can work up, or let me say, wake up the Spirit of God inside you by 
singing Him into motion. The hand of the Lord came upon Elisha as the 
minstrel began to play and brought Elisha into a supernatural depth of insight. 
Remember that God inhabits the praises of His people (Ps. 22:3). So, you can 
sing the Spirit of God into manifestation. 
MEDITATION
You can also generate inspiration through meditation. Meditation means 
engaging a mental focus on an issue, for the purpose of enlightenment and 
illumination. 
But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the 
Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as 
by the Spirit of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 3:18
===== PDF PAGE 50 =====
That is, as you engage in a mental focus on the Word of God, you are 
changed, the Spirit of God inside you is stirred into action.
There is no substitute for inspiration. Your mental faculty will remain 
dormant without that breath of the Almighty from on high. 
Inspiration is the principal asset of every genius. There are people who 
read and read, yet nothing seems to be turning on inside them, everything still 
looks dark, and they remain people of average intelligence. Only the inspiration
of the Almighty gives understanding. You can't separate surpassing intelligence 
from inspiration.
There has to be a drawing from heaven before you can become outstanding
in the school of intelligence.
Enemies Of Inspiration
There are enemies of inspiration, which I would like you to come against. 
They include fear, anxiety and concerns. These weigh down your spirit, causing
it to choke under their weight. They also paralyze your mental abilities, because
the devil knows that he can't handle you when you are are inspired. So he 
generates concerns, anxieties and burdens, to keep you too busy to open up to 
God's inspiration.
So, begin now to cast down any such enemy of inspiration in your life.
 
YOU NEED GRACE
All the demands for enjoying inspiration require grace. You need grace in 
order to meditate effectively. You also require grace to be studious. You need 
grace to be able to worship God into the realms of inspiration. 
Genuine worship and praise that will stir up the Spirit of God on your 
inside requires grace. Receive that grace now, in the precious name of Jesus!
===== PDF PAGE 51 =====
CHAPTER 7: 
CREATING THE RIGHT
 ATMOSPHERE
Every living thing needs a conducive atmosphere for development. Even 
plants need the right condition to grow, if you want to get the best of results or 
harvest.
Likewise, we have to be mindful of maintaining a conducive atmosphere 
for mental development. The first factor for consideration here is:
QUIETNESS
The practice of quietness enhances mental development. The Bible defines
quietness as a virtue of great price. That is, it carries valuable treasures. 
But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not 
corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is 
in the sight of God of great price.
1 Peter 3:4
In 1 Thessalonians 4:11, the Bible says:
And that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business...
This is because quietness has a lot to deliver. Inspiration is the catalyst for 
unique intelligence, and it requires quietness.
When Elijah was at the point of giving up, and laid tired by the mouth of a 
cave, there was an earthquake, a fire, and then a strong wind. But God was not 
there. Then there came a still small voice. It was in the midst of that still small 
voice that a new chapter was opened up to him. Elijah was out on a suicide 
mission, he wanted to die, but the virtue of quietness paid off for him in the 
midst of his despair. As he laid quiet, God demonstrated to him a great drama 
on how to encounter inspiration.
Quietness is in the sight of God a treasure of great price, because it 
===== PDF PAGE 52 =====
facilitates inspiration, which is a great asset in our quest for mental excellence. 
I can't do without inspiration. God said, Let not the mighty man glory in his 
wisdom, but let him that glory, glory in this, that he knows me (Jer. 9:23,24). 
That means that every outstanding insight has God's input, and God's input is 
contacted through inspiration.
The practice of quietness is a requirement for mental development, 
because the voice of the Lord always comes down in a still voice. He said you 
will hear a voice behind you (Isa. 30:21). So you have to be extra still.
Friend, you need plenty of quietness to get the most out of this precious 
gift called the mind.
SEPARATION
Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and 
intermeddleth with all wisdom.
Proverbs 18:1
Separation entails getting out of the crowd and multitude, and getting 
yourself to a corner alone. This facilitates mental development. Every author 
will agree that every solid material he gets is delivered in solitary corners.
I once had a big problem and needed to know how to deal with the issue. I 
needed to be alone, so I travelled to Accra, Ghana. On arrival there, I told our 
missionaries, No telephone calls, no personal contacts, no one comes around. 
I'm not here for the church. I am not going to preach or teach anywhere.
One early morning, I was up at the seashore, where after walking about 
two kilometres, at a point I needed to sit down. As I sat down, I kept thinking, 
There has to be a solution to this situation.
Then I picked my pen (alone under that little canopy), and I had showers 
from he aven! By the time I got back to Nigeria, I was fully armed with what to
do to deal with the problem and put everything back in place.
At another time, I needed to establish my stand on prosperity. I didn't have 
enough proofs to convince the gainsayers. I needed more insight that would 
reinforce my confidence, until the proofs began to come. So I took off on a 3-
day trip. I said, Lord, I want to understand this subject of prosperity.
It was a very hot desire in my heart! I needed to know if prosperity was 
God's will for His people or whether it was from somewhere else. I wanted a 
===== PDF PAGE 53 =====
good understanding on the subject.
I armed myself with some materials, and then separated myself no 
meetings, no going out. Then on the third day, the heavens came down! What I 
laid hold on that day (May 1981) is still with me as fresh as the day it was first 
delivered. In Genesis 24:63, the Bible talks of how Isaac separated himself, and
went out to meditate. That was how he became a unique farmer. He got 
extraordinary insight son how to make things work in spite of famine. When the
Bible said Isaac sowed in the land (Gen. 26:12), it was not that he gave 
offering. Isaac sowed practical seeds and reaped a bumper harvest, because he 
knew what to do to get it. He understood the mystery of separation for mental 
prowess and dignity. Isaac went out to meditate in the evening time, and as he 
lifted up his eyes, behold the camels were coming.
Many need to take a trip outside their rooms, since they can't think well 
there. Take a trip outside your office, utilize your weekend and undertake an 
adventure to find the answer to that bugging issue, and locate the way out. 
If you check carefully, you will identify this trait in virtually every man of 
outstanding intelligence. You can't live in the midst of noise and make the most 
of this treasure called the mind.
The story is told of how one day, Bill Gates (the computer giant), was busy
in one corner engaged in serious mental exercise, and his mother went looking 
everywhere for him. She called out, Bill! Bill! Where are you? No sound, no 
response. When she located him in his corner and asked him what he was doing
there, his response was, I am thinking! Don't you think! Today, we can see the 
results of those times of separation. 
Through desire a man separates himself... That is the condition that must 
be met, and then you'll begin to have encounters with all wisdom.
KEEPING WISE COMPANY
Wise company is a conducive atmosphere for mental development. 
The Bible says: He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a 
companion of fools shall be destroyed.
Proverbs 13:20
Having wise friends, walking with wise people and connecting with wise 
associate s enhance your mental development. 
The good thing is that they don't have to be there physically. You can make
===== PDF PAGE 54 =====
friend's through materials like books and tapes. You can make the authors and 
preachers your friends in absentia, people you relate with in the school of 
knowledge. Someone said, You ll remain the same way you are today in five 
years, except for two things: the books you read and the people with whom you 
walk.
You can interact with people through the books you read, as though they 
were there physically. This is because what you're doing while reading a book 
is sharing the opinions and thoughts of the authors, rubbing minds with him. 
Every book you read is the author's thoughts in print. So when you read his/her 
material, you're keeping company with him/her, and sharing his/her thoughts, 
and in no time, you will start thinking the same way. So, just as your physical 
friends are important, the materials you read are equally important. 
One way to determine who to associate with is to find out whether what 
the person is saying is profiting him/her or not. 
Job 32:8 says:
But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty 
giveth them understanding.
Your openness to divine inspiration is what determines how intelligent you
become. The Amplified Version says: 
But there is [a vital force] a spirit [of intelligence] in man, and the 
breath o f the Almighty gives men understanding.
Inspiration has no match in the school of intelligence. What I mean by 
creating a conducive atmosphere for development is creating an atmosphere 
conducive for divine inspiration. And that, as we have seen, requires the 
practise of quietness, separation and keeping wise company. These three factors
will enhance your speedy development in the school of mental excellence. 
So, it's time to switch off that noise and row in your environment, so you 
can catch what God has in store for you.
===== PDF PAGE 55 =====
CHAPTER 8: 
EXERCISING THE MIND 
FOR MENTAL EXCELLENCE
But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those 
who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both 
good and evil. 
Hebrews 5:14
Your senses can be exercised. 
Isaac Newton became a renowned success by exercising his mind to 
excellence. An apple dropped on his head one day while he was sitting under an
apple tree. Then he began wondering to himself, Why did this thing fall? Why 
did it not stop in m id-air? What was pulling it?
That was how he discovered the law of gravity, which has contributed in 
no small way to scientific and technological development.
How does one exercise one s mind for mental excellence?
RESEARCH
The first way is by research. This means searching, searching and 
searching, until you find what you're seeking. Search, and if you can't find it, 
re-search, because it is there. I describe research as engaging in fact-finding 
study. You have a regenerated mind, an anointed mind, the mind of Christ. It is 
a gift from God. But that is not the end, it shouldn't just stop there. It's only a 
seed, which must be nurtured until it begins to bring forth fruits.
We saw in Daniel 1:17 how God gave Daniel and his friends knowledge 
and skill in all learning and wisdom. Yet, in Daniel 9:2, Daniel said, I Daniel 
understood by books... His understanding came alive and became more 
productive through his reading of books. The gift alone couldn't handle it, the 
books had to help the gift. Yes, he had a very rare gift, but it had to be nurtured 
to function. Although uniquely gifted, the Hebrew boys still had a responsibility
to nurture that seed unto fruit-bearing.
This is what happens when you embark on a research adventure. In 
===== PDF PAGE 56 =====
Proverbs 27:17, we re told that iron sharpeneth iron...
When you're searching, studying or out on a fact-finding mission, what 
you are doing is rubbing your ordinary mind with greater minds. By so doing, 
your dull mind is sharpened, just like when an iron sharpens another iron. 
There are many who have read so many things in the Bible, but are not 
able to grasp them. But when they read other related books, they are then able 
to understand what they hitherto couldn't grasp. Something happens to their 
mental system, sharpening it and making it spiritually smarter, such that their 
understanding of God is enlarged in various other areas of life.
No matter how gifted you are, how studious you are is what determines 
how colourful you will become mentally. This, I believe, explains why they say
every genius is made up of 99% perspiration and 1% inspiration. He has to 
keep at it. Friend, the gift is not enough. This is where many Christians miss it. 
Paul was one of the most gifted men in the New Testament; and he was a 
bookworm (1 Tim. 4:13). He wasn't just reading for pleasure, as he always had 
a notebook by him (2 Tim. 4:13). 
While going on a trip one day, just as I was about boarding the plane, I 
asked for my briefcase, and was told that it had been left in the car. I 
immediately stopped and told them I wasn't going anywhere without it. I 
couldn't imagine myself away for one whole week without my personal study 
notes.
Many read for pleasure, no wonder they constantly live under pressure. It's
time to study for insight. Be committed to fact-finding in your search, not just 
for pleasure and religious satisfaction or a routine morning devotion time. The 
evidence of your studies must be seen around you, manifested in your freedom 
from sickness, sin, sorrow and suffering. The joy of the Lord should be seen 
oozing fort h from you and great results coming from the work you're doing. 
Then shall we know that you're really devoted in your search and studies.
The gift of a sound mind is not enough. You must be committed to the 
development of that gift. Even though Daniel was gifted, he was committed to 
mental development, through a studious life.
It is common knowledge that every committed reader is a potential leader. 
And who is a leader? He is someone who sees ahead, who sees beyond what 
others are seeing and knows a little better than others.
And because he has what others need, they keep coming to him in search 
of it. Th is comes from a personal commitment to mental development.
Anthony Robbins (I call him the 700-in-one man) gave expression to his 
commitment to mental development by his committed studious life. He was 
heading for somewhere, and he was ready to give it all that is required to get 
===== PDF PAGE 57 =====
there. If wishes were horses, beggars would ride. There are too many wishers in
the Church, who are doing nothing about their dreams. No one succeeds by 
accident. Anthony Robbins claims he had read 700 books, and see where it has 
landed him! He is considered today as one of the most developed persons on 
the earth. He got at i t through committed studies.
The man of God, David Yonggi Cho, says his wife piles up the books she 
thinks he should read by his bedside every week. When he asked her why she 
always did that, she told him that she wasn't forcing him to read them, but that 
he would offend her, if he didn't read them. From his writings, one can see that 
he's a well-read man.
Of course, you must be someone with great brains to successfully pastor 
the largest congregation on the earth. He's been at it for about 40 years, and the 
fire is still burning. That s a man with an extraordinarily developed mental 
system. He h as strange insights, which he contacted through varied readings. 
It's time to sit up, mental development doesn't come by accident.
Someone once asked me, Do you cram scriptures? I said, No, I don't, I eat 
them! There are some scriptures that I have read over and over again, so how 
will it not stick? 
The more you read, the more you will discover that you don't know. You 
read the same passage of scripture that you've been reading for 20 years and 
still discover something you've never seen in all the years you've been reading 
it.
Sit up, friend! You don't know anything yet. The Bible says, And if any 
man think that he knoweth any thing, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to 
know (1 Cor. 8:2). Don't assume knowledge, consciously acquire it.
Somebody is out there struggling in a particular area of life, whereas all he
needs do is to locate a material that addresses that subject, written by a sincere 
man of God, and sit down with it. If he prays a sincere prayer Jesus, I want to 
be out of this. I want a testimony in this area then, God will open up to him. A 
lady gave this testimony, to the glory of God:
I had been married for nine years, but my marriage broke up, because of 
my stealing habit. Whenever I was in need and the money was not forthcoming 
from my husband, I would watch out for wherever he kept some money for 
other things and took some out of it. 
In fact, this terrible affliction started when I was a little girl. I would pick 
things that were not mine and deny whenever I was asked about them. This 
continued in my matrimonial home. Even as a believer, I still indulged in the 
habit of stealing and lying, till I was left to take care of my three children all 
alone.
===== PDF PAGE 58 =====
In the month of Visitation, Bishop Abioye recommended that we should 
read the book, Dynamics Of Holiness, written by Bishop David Oyedepo. After
reading the boo k, the Holy Spirit opened my eyes to see that if I entered into an
oath or coven ant with God and lived in righteousness, all would be well with 
me. So, I decide d for God and cursed myself to have leprosy, if I ever stole 
again. I stood by that vow and God has blessed and given me what to do to earn
money of my own. Now, my three children and I are living well, as God has put
laughter in my mouth! Praise God, stealing and lying are now dead in my life! 
I'm free at last; I've enter ed into a covenant with God, never to indulge in them 
any more. As a result, so many doors of business have opened up to me from all
angles. It is the Lord s doing and it is marvelous in my eyes! E.A.O. (Mrs.)
Paul charged Timothy to give attention to reading and to doctrine. Every 
committed reader is a potential leader, so take grace today for a consistent 
studious life.
Abraham Lincoln said anyone who stops learning is old, whether he is 80 
years old or 20, whereas anyone who keeps learning remains young. He also 
said that the greatest thing in life is to keep your mind young. Be on a 
consistent searching adventure. Don't just read for pleasure, but read with a 
fact-finding mission that will help to brighten your destiny.
Dr. T. L. Osborn also said, When you stop learning, you start dying. So, to 
keep living, you must keep learning.
MEDITATION
Another way to exercise your mind to mental excellence is by meditation. 
I define meditation as giving mental focus to issues of interest, with the aim of 
enlightenment and illumination. This was the greatest companion of the wisest 
man in Bible history, Solomon. He said:
...I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all 
things that are done under heaven...
I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great 
estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been 
before me in Jerusalem: yea, my heart had great experience of 
wisdom and knowledge.
And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and 
folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.
Ecclesiastes 1:13-17
===== PDF PAGE 59 =====
He gave his heart. That is, he was mentally focused. He communed with 
his own hear t meditation! 
You need to understand what it means to commune with your heart, to 
ponder on the truth in your heart, and to mentally focus on the Word of life, so 
you can lay hold on the substance in it. That was the secret behind the mental 
fertility that Solomon enjoyed. He was addicted to the art of meditation.
I think meditation is the missing asset in the Church today. So many are 
given to rigorous reading and studies, but very few people take time to ponder 
the fact s and issues involved, in order to lay hold on the facts of life that they 
contain.
So, it's not enough to be a reader, you must also be a thinker. You must be 
given to the genuine art of meditation, so you can enjoy mental distinction. Ask 
quest ions: What could be responsible for this?, Why is it like this? can't it be 
otherwise? Meditation, no doubt, is a great asset in making the most of this 
great gift of a sound mind that God has given you. If you have read and you 
don't seem to have assimilated much, settle down and ponder over what you 
have read. Start grinding it mentally, believing that there must be a solution, 
and you will definitely find it.
THE SERVICES OF CONSULTANTS
Another way of exercising your mind is by employing the services of 
consultants. It was the practice of kings in Israel to engage the services of 
counsellors.  Ahitophel was one of such. He was the think-tank of David s 
government, and later went with Absalom, when he rebelled against his father. 
The Bible tells us that in those days, the counsel of Ahitophel was as if a man 
took an oracle from the Lord. He was deep.
There are people in every area of human endeavour, who are deep enough 
to help you. Moses the great man of God would have died under a heavy load 
of responsibility, if it were not for the counsel of Jethro, his father-in-law. 
Jethro gave hi m a godly counsel, which I believe, helped him to live long.
Consultants can also be called counsellors. They re specialists in specific 
areas, and their mission is to enhance your understanding of issues in their 
fields of specialization. So, rather than struggle through life, why not consult 
them? For instance, who can be a better consultant on church growth than 
David Yonggi Cho, the pastor of the largest church in the world? You may 
never be able to fix an appointment with him to see him, but his books and 
other publications are all around, to show you scriptural technicalities of church
===== PDF PAGE 60 =====
growth.
These consultants are men who have results in their areas of 
specialization. So, unlike the general books that you read, you 
believe that they know what they are talking about, so you want 
their opinions on the issue at hand.
And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he counselled in those days, 
was as if a man had inquired at the oracle of God: so was all the 
counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.
2 Samuel 16:23
There are such people planted around you, who have excelled in the area 
where yo u are involved and are still trying to find your feet. It is wisdom to 
line up behind them and grab what they have to offer. 
Isaac Newton said something very interesting. He said, If I have seen any 
farther, it is because I am standing on the shoulders of those who have gone 
before me. There's a lot to learn from those who have gone before you. It helps 
to enhance your mental development. 
However, it takes meekness to enjoy the ministry of counsellors. A proud-
hearted man will always have reasons to give why the things recommended will
not work in his own case. He will tell you that the consultant/counsellor is only 
lucky, o r that he has some advantage. Such a man will never be open to accept 
that the counsel being proffered is the Word of God that will work anywhere.
The Word of God has this to say about counsel:
Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of 
counsellors there is safety.
Proverbs 11:14
Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of
counsellors they are established.
Proverbs 15:22
Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in 
thy latter end.
There are many devices in a man's heart; nevertheless the counsel 
===== PDF PAGE 61 =====
of the LORD, that shall stand.
Proverbs 19:20-21
Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice 
make war. 
Proverbs 20:18
Note that consultants may come your way on tapes or through books, 
while a few of them may come your way in person. If you can identify them, 
and are willing and delighted to identify with them, then their ministry will 
benefit you.
By engaging the services of consultants, you're able to exercise your 
senses, enlarge your understanding and make more out of life than you would 
have otherwise.
Many Christian businessmen think that this rigorous reading is only for 
preachers and pastors. No. Everyone who wants his purpose established needs 
counsellors. So look out for those who have testimonies in their business 
enterprises anointed and gifted men and receive counsel from them. From 
meeting them physically or through their tapes and books, you'll get to know 
how they relate with God, how they operate with Gods principles and how it is 
affecting their business. When you apply the same, you'll be on your way up!
I had a little understanding of how to set up an office and ministry work. 
But w hen I was privileged to be at Dr. Frederick K. C. Price's office, and he 
took me a round and shared some things with me, my perspective changed. 
That tour enhanced and boosted my understanding of what an office 
environment should be. I applied it, and it's still working for us today. 
When I visited the Oral Roberts University, I saw the classic business 
perspective in their operations and said to myself, It can be done anywhere. I 
got a few things from there also. 
Friend, do you want your purpose to be established in life? Then, open up 
to the counsel of godly men who have proofs. 
I want to enjoy productive longevity. I don't just want to be alive, I want to
be alive serving God, because He said, even in old age, they shall still bring 
forth fruit (Ps. 92:14). So wisdom demands that I look for those who are old in 
His service, and are still relevant to their assignment and the move of God, then
line up myself with them. So, I take time to read again and again the things they
have said, which must have kept them till now, and it's helping me a lot. When I
===== PDF PAGE 62 =====
see someone who has stayed on successfully in ministry for 64 years, I should 
learn from him how to keep alive and still be productive in old age. If I need 
any extra knowledge, then I'll write him a letter, saying, Could you please 
explain this to me?
If you have a pure heart, you ll have great results from such actions. The 
ministry of godly counsellors helps to boost your understanding and mentality, 
stirring you up within.
PRAYER
Let's now consider the place of prayer in exercising your mind for mental 
excellence.
Insight-expectant prayer is another avenue through which you can stir up 
the precious gift of a sound mind on your inside. In Daniel's days, the king had 
a dream and forgot it, but the trouble of the dream remained with him. He then 
asked all the wise men, astrologers, Chaldeans and sorcerers to tell him the 
dream and it's interpretation, failing which he would have all of them killed. 
But none of them was able to tell the dream or its interpretation, because no 
man had ever heard of such a thing.
Then Daniel went in, and desired of the king that he would give 
him time, and that he would show the king the interpretation.
Then Daniel went to his house, and made the thing known to 
Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions:
That they would desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning 
this secret; that Daniel and his fellows should not perish with the 
rest of the wise men of Babylon.
Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then 
Daniel blessed the God of heaven.
Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God for ever and
ever: for wisdom and might are his:
Daniel 2:16-20
There are certain things happening around you that you don't quite 
understand, but you want to see resolved. Daniel prayed insight-expectant 
prayer: Lord, I don't know it, but I know You know it. God of heaven, show it 
now.
===== PDF PAGE 63 =====
In Jeremiah 33:3, God said:
Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and show thee great and 
mighty things, which thou knowest not.
No one on earth may know that thing, but God knows it. 
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of 
God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past 
finding out!
Romans 11:33
You can call forth supernatural insight in prayers. The Word of God says 
you can ask for wisdom from God, if you lack it (Jms. 1:5). God knows all 
things and is willing to show it, so call upon Him in the name of Jesus, to show 
you how to end that predicament or problem.
I had an experience of insight-expectant prayer sometime ago when the 
devil came to snatch our little daughter. I went up to my office, locked the doors
and said, There must be a way out. I called upon God, and then, supernaturally, 
under one hour, three powerful scriptures, with fire in them, came alive in my 
spirit. With them, the sting of death was banished, death was swallowed up in 
victory, and Jesus was glorified!
Pray insight-expectant prayers, not just blank prayers. 
As I reasoned that there must be a way out of the situation, suddenly He 
said to me, I am He that was dead, and behold, I live forevermore, and it is in 
My hand that the keys of life and death are. I then said to Him, So the key of 
death is in Your hand? He said, Yeah. It can't be in Your hand and You favour 
Your enemy with it? I said. And He said, Never!
You don't have to sleep like Daniel, waiting for it to be revealed in a night 
vision. In fact, the more awake you are, the more conscious and mentally alert 
you become.
Insight-expectant prayer requires that you open your Bible and heart, and 
say, Lord, I know there's a way out here. These chains can't remain. No way! I 
am not born for captivity, I am a child of liberty! And then you begin to 
worship Him in the spirit, with an intense desire to locate what is missing.
I'd like you to start applying yourself to the exercise of the mind through 
fact-finding adventures, meditation, engaging the services of consultants and 
through insight-expectant prayer. Until you put your mind to work, God will 
===== PDF PAGE 64 =====
not mind you. It is the exercise of the mind that produces excellence. Hebrews 
5:14 talks ab out exercising our senses to discern between good and evil. 
E. W. Kenyon in his book, “Signposts On The Road to Success”, said, 
Make your brain work; it will sweat, but make it work. Then it will improve, it 
will develop, until you become the envy of those around you.
So you have to make it work before it begins to work for you. It won't 
work on its own, as your conscious participation is required.
===== PDF PAGE 65 =====
CHAPTER 9:
 OBSTACLE OF MENTAL
 EXCELLENCE
Every great door commands the attention of adversaries. 
For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are 
many adversaries.
1 Corinthians 16:9
The enemy knows the role your mind plays in moulding your destiny. He 
knows that your mind is the gateway to your life. As a result, he constantly 
organizes obstacles on the way.
The devil is a mind-blocker. He organizes programmes to blind your mind,
because he knows that when your mind is blinded, your destiny is blocked and 
your future becomes uncertain. Second Corinthians 4:3-4 says:
But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost:
In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them 
which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who
is the image of God, should shine unto them.
Satan is interested in the state of your mind. If he can blind it, then he can 
get at anything else in your life.
Looking at drug addicts, you ll discover that what the devil actually does 
to them is to play on their minds by deceiving them to try out pleasures. It is in 
the process of trying out pleasures that they multiply pressures for themselves. 
We shall consider some of the devices the enemy uses in blinding the minds of 
me n. He uses tricks and gimmicks in getting his results, because he has lost all 
h is power. Remember what Genesis 3:1 said about him:
Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which 
the LORD God h ad made...
The devil is very crafty! You can't catch him easily, except you are 
===== PDF PAGE 66 =====
spiritually s mart. Now, what are the obstacles he has placed on the way of your
mental excellence?
SIN
Adam, before the fall, was a symbol of supernatural mental excellence. He
knew almost everything. He single-handedly named all the animals that God 
created. He was excellent! But the devil got him through sin!
...The soul that sinneth, it shall die.
Ezekiel 18:4
God has not changed. When you habitually live in sin, you're destroying 
your mental capacity. 
Dr. T. L. Osborn said something very profound along this line. He said, 
Every time you sin, something dies in you. And I believe one of such things 
that die in people when they sin is their heritage of mental excellence. 
After he had sinned, Adam could not think of any other way of covering 
himself except with leaves. He was created in the very image of God, and had 
all the creative abilities that God had. Yet, with all that inside him, he couldn't 
find a better way of covering himself, because he had stepped out of mental 
excellence. When sin becomes your way of life, you're not a candidate for 
mental excellence. S in corrupts mentality. No crooked man or woman is a 
worthy candidate for mental excellence. Such a person has sold off his/her 
birthright to stealing, adultery, crookedness or perverseness. No wonder 
Proverbs 1:7 says:
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools 
despise wisdom and instruction.
It takes the fear of God to walk in mental excellence. The fear of God 
grants yo u unlimited access into the deep things of God. If you want to be 
profound mentally, then you must shun sin and embrace integrity as a way of 
life. Daniel was one of the most high sounding brains of his days. Daniel 1:8 
told us that he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself... So one 
of the blockades the enemy establishes is to give you a good taste for 
perverseness, crookedness and sin. By these, he blocks the mind, until the brain
c ells are fully paralysed, and the man starts doing silly, and crazy things! From 
scriptures, it is clear that all men that got to the top in the school of mental 
excellence were men who feared God. And the Bible advises that we should b e
===== PDF PAGE 67 =====
followers of such people, who through faith and patience obtained the promise 
(Heb. 6:12).
Do you want to excel like Joseph did? Then embrace his lifestyle of purity.
He d id not only resist the temptation of escaping from slavery in Potiphar s 
house (he was grown enough to know the way back home, yet he never 
attempted it), he also did not play around with his master s substance. He was a 
straightforward man, a man of character.
Every man of integrity naturally enjoys mental dignity. It is the heritage of 
such people. Joseph was an honest man, a man of truth and verity. There was 
nothin g crafty in his life. 
Friend, if you want anything from God, you have to come on His terms, 
not yours.
The soul that sinneth it shall die. Many believers are dead mentally, and 
they continue killing themselves gradually, until they are completely dead.
Sin! That s Satan s number one trap. By enhancing and promoting your 
taste for sin, he drags you into the net of mental failure.
ACCEPTING THE STATUS QUO
The next trap that the enemy uses to block men s mental excellence is to 
make them accept the status quo. He gets them thinking, This is where I belong.
God has tried. This is just okay.
Listen to me: the moment you stop pushing, you start crashing! Don't ever 
get to the point where, if you don't make it, you conclude that it means God has 
not planned for you to make it. Don't get to a place where you think you have 
tried your best, and if the results you have is all that came out of your efforts, 
then that must be your luck. Such an attitude is accepting the status quo, and it 
paralyses mental excellence. 
The Bible says that the path of the just is like a shining light that shines 
more and more unto the perfect day (Prov. 4:18). God has a place for you at the 
top. He says, If you come on line with Me and do what I tell you to do, I will 
set you up on high above all nations of the earth (Deut. 28:1). You have a place 
at the top. I don't know where you are now, but you still have a long way to go, 
to get to where God is taking you to.
By making you accept the status quo, the devil stops you from seeing any 
better future than the one you have now. And the moment you accept that from 
him, it is over, because only those who see what lies ahead take steps toward it. 
===== PDF PAGE 68 =====
If you can't see anything ahead of you, you won't take steps, and then life grinds
to a halt.
Where you are now is a wonderful place, but God has a more wonderful 
place for you tomorrow. The results you have now are quite wonderful, but God
has more awaiting you. The top is where you belong. I don't know how far you 
have gone up the l adder, but God is ready to set you up on high, above all the 
nations of the earth. 
This kind of understanding will keep you moving at all times. No matter 
where yo u are at any time, there is still a place for you (if you care for it) above
all nations of the earth. So please, refuse to accept the status quo. As long as 
you're on the righteous side with God, your path is as a shining light, that shines
more and more unto the perfect day.
When life is void of progress, it becomes a burden. And nothing motivates 
the brain to work like seeing something ahead of you. When you see it, you 
then begin to work towards it. But when your brain is no longer working 
towards anything, it becomes a weight on your body. 
Let your attitude be, I don't care where I am now, the best is yet to come. 
The devil may tell you that where you are is good enough, but say to him, Shut 
up! Kenneth Hagin wrote a book on healing in 1996, and it was more powerful 
than the one he wrote in 1960 36 years before! Yet more powerful, far more 
loaded, because the path of the just is like a shining light that shines more and 
more with each passing day. So don't let the devil trap you in accepting where 
you are now as your limit or fate. No! God has a better tomorrow ahead of you.
THE TRAP OF PAST FAILURES
Another obstacle to mental excellence is the trap of mental torture 
generated by dwelling on the irreparable past. Satan connects you so much to 
the past, that you can't see anything ahead anymore. You think about your car 
that had an accident and was a write-off, you think about the exam you wrote 
and failed. But in Isaiah 43:18, God said: 
Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of 
old. 
If you stay glued to the negative past, your great future loses its colour. 
The past is dead! It can no longer be corrected. So leave it in the grave and take
the next step forward. In Isaiah 43:19, God says:
Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring forth; shall ye not 
===== PDF PAGE 69 =====
know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the
desert.
If you won't forget the former things, you're not likely to know the new 
things that God is about to do. Only those who are smart enough to bury their 
past enjoy a great future. No wonder Paul said in Philippians 3:13-14: 
...This one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and
reaching forth unto those things which are before,
I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in 
Christ Jesus.
If you don't let the past be past, you're likely to pass away with it. So, bury 
the past, otherwise you ll be buried along with it. Yesterday is gone; the events 
of yesterday are past, you can't do anything about them, you can't recall them to
correct or amend them. They're past, so leave them there and look ahead. Go 
forward! Every issue of yesterday is irreparable, and this is the answer to it: 
Remember not... Proverbs 24:16 says: 
For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again...
You must escape the trap of past failures, in order to enjoy a great future. 
The devil comes around to remind you of the negative past, so as to rob you of 
your colourful future. Don't give him the chance.
If the righteous man falls, he should rise up again, not lie down there on 
the floor. Brush off the negative past from your memory, and you ll see how 
beautiful life will become.
Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise; 
when I sit in darkness, the LORD shall be a light unto me.
Micah 7:8
You are out of place down there on the floor, you belong to the top. If you 
watch wrestling tournaments on TV , you will observe that there's no world 
champion who was not once on the floor. You ll never find a general who has 
no scars. Yet at the end, he has two or three stars on his shoulder.
Stop whining on the floor! Don't wait for the final count, or you ll be out 
of the tournament. Jump up and be back in the contest! 
===== PDF PAGE 70 =====
At times, you find blood dripping down the nostrils of the champion at the 
end o f the contest. In spite of this, his arms are still raised in victory as the 
winner.
If there's anything to remember in the past, let it be your great successes, 
accomplishments and great results. Your testimonies (not your trials), are what 
should be kept in remembrance. Anything negative is not worthy of a place in 
your memory bank. It paralyzes mentality, so don't give the devil a chance to 
keep it there.
I know an elderly person who never travels in aeroplanes (though he's 
educated), just because he's seen one or two planes crash in the past. I told him 
that there are more car accidents than plane crashes. Everyday on our roads, 
there's an accident, yet he would rather travel by road on long-distance 
journeys, even though he can afford to fly. He has not freed himself from the 
past, and that has dulled his mentality. So even if something good is waiting for
him in Canada, for instance, he won't go! This is just a typical case of how the 
devil paralyses one's mentality.
PRIDE OF PAST ACHIEVEMENTS
The fourth obstacle to mental excellence is the pride of past achievements. 
The pride of past achievements has a way of paralysing your drive and 
mentality, and in turn stunting your growth. 
What appears standard today very soon becomes sub-standard tomorrow. 
Bless God f or your past achievement, but it's only a pointer that you can get 
more done in future, if you choose to. For you, even in old age you will still 
bring forth fruits (Ps. 92:14). 
There is this idiomatic expression that says one shouldn't rest on one s 
oars. It me ans don't dwell too much on past achievements. No wonder the 
Bible gives this charge in Micah 2:10: 
Arise ye, and depart; for this is not your rest: because it is polluted,
it shall destroy you, even with a sore destruction.
The rich fool prided himself with the fact that he had laid up enough to eat 
and drink till his time on earth was over. But God proved that such a person has
no reason to be alive anymore.
God said He has a place for you to be the greatest among the greatest. He 
said He will set you up on high, above all the nations of the earth. But you're so 
far d own the ladder, yet you are taking a break! That place that looks so 
===== PDF PAGE 71 =====
colourful today will soon become polluted. 
Bless God for your past achievement friend, but don't be tied down by it. 
There's still a place called forward. Let your past achievements be a motivating 
force for you. Let it drive you on to greater heights. 
To remain mentally awake, you have to keep moving towards a well-
defined target. I said in my book, “Towards Excellence in Life & Ministry”, 
that when your assignment becomes a task, all your senses will come alive. Life
is not a joke. When your assignment becomes a task, all your brain cells will 
take on new life. Some business people thank God they have two or three 
people working for them now, and they feel on top of the world. They have 
concluded, This is a good place to pitch our tent. Friend, get moving!
Many have pitched their tents mentally. No wonder they're not moving 
forward any more. Where you are now is not good enough for tomorrow. It is 
wonderful and amazing today, but if you tarry there longer than is required, you
will lose relevance.
There are people with whom we started off in ministry together, who today
are still struggling to pay the rent of the facilities they use for service. They re 
still renting chairs and negotiating with landlords. Why? They got to a point 
and felt, This is the place to pitch our tent. But there is a time to rent and 
another time to be a house owner. If you don't know the difference between the 
two timings, you will lose relevance.
Where you are today may look amazing, but it's not good enough for 
tomorrow. The world is watching to see you take steps. If you pitch your tent 
too early, you will lose relevance in no time. Bless God for where you are now, 
but He has a bigger place for you ahead, so keep moving forward!
COMPARISON
In 2 Corinthians 10:12, we see another obstacle to mental excellence. It is
comparing yourself with others, especially the less-privileged.
For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare 
ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuring
themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among 
themselves, are not wise.
2 Corinthians 10:12
The devil will keep reminding you of how many of your age mates are 
farmers in the village, how many have died, telling you to thank God that you're
===== PDF PAGE 72 =====
still alive, that that s enough.
You have your life to live, you have a mission to accomplish. The 
privileges around you are pointers to the mission that God has ordained you to 
accomplish. The Bible says that much is expected from whom much is given. 
You must not disappoint God, He has loaded much into you. 
You have to believe in the principle of identity. You are here on a mission. 
I don't know what anyone else is sent to do, but bless God, I'm on a mission on 
this earth.
There are two sides to this trap of comparison. One is comparing yourself 
with fellows who are more privileged than you are. You say to yourself, Can I 
ever get there? Well, I think where I am is not too bad.
On the other hand, you may compare yourself with those who are less 
privileged than you are. You say to yourself, I think I have tried. See where the 
others are. Anyone of these two sides is a trap of the enemy to make you miss 
out on your mission on earth. Unto whom much is given, much is required (Lk. 
12:48). Don't be trapped by comparing yourself with others. Whether negative 
or positive, you're answerable only to God, who has endowed you for whatever 
mission He has given you on earth. So keep moving!
Jesus spoke to Peter about his future and Peter asked, What about this 
man? And Jesus said to him, If it is my wish that the man tarries till I come, 
what's your business? (Jn. 21:20-22). 
The Bible says, Study to be quiet and do your own business (1 Thes. 4:11).
Stop wondering about what the other man will do, do your own!
FEAR OF CURSES AND ENCHANTMENTS
Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for 
us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree:
That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through 
Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit 
through faith.
Galatians 3:13-14
If you have been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ, curses and 
enchantments have lost their hold on your life. You are now connected to the 
blessing channel of Abraham. And we know that God said to Abraham in 
===== PDF PAGE 73 =====
Genesis 12:3: 
And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth 
thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.
That means you can't be cursed, molested, enchanted or bewitched! Yet 
many have stopped thinking, because they have been made to believe that 
there's a curse working against them. As a result, they operate in this 
consciousness, saying to themselves, No matter how much I try, from the fourth
generation till now, it has been the same.
So whatever he hears in church bounces back, having no real impact on 
him. He also despises whatever he reads in books. He has fasted forty days over
the matter, but has not given it a thought for one second. Who is stronger, the 
witch or God? Which is more valid, the word of a witch or the Word of God?
Many years ago, while driving on the highway, I overtook a woman I 
perceive must be one of the terrible witches in that city. She met me at a filling 
station where I had stopped to refuel, and with gleaming eyes she snapped at 
me, You overtook me like that? There's no way you will get to where you're 
going. And I quickly rep lied her, As soon as I get there, you will hear.
You know there's a word used to describe fear paranoid. Why? Because it 
has a paralysing effect on its victim. People who live in fear hardly think well. 
Fear paralyzes mentality. Be free from it now, in Jesus name!
===== PDF PAGE 74 =====
CHAPTER 10: 
SET FOR A MENTAL REVOLUTION
Are you set for a mental revolution?
Then let me say this: supernatural mentality or mental excellence for 
mental exploits, is impossible and cannot be operated without the ministry of 
the Holy Spirit. He is the One who reveals and co-ordinates its operation inside 
you. First Corinthians 2:6-13 says:
Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet not the
wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to 
nought:
But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden 
wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory:
Which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known 
it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have 
entered int o the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared
for them that love him. But God hath revealed them unto us by his 
Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all t hings, yea, the deep things of 
God.
For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man 
which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but 
the Spirit of God. Now we have received, not the spirit of the world,
but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that 
are freely given to us of God. Which things also we speak, not in the
words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost 
teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual. 
The Holy Spirit sits upon your mentality, to bring everything around you 
that will help you get to where you're going. He collates facts for you. He 
delivers them in concrete terms, so that you won't have any doubt as to why you
are taking the step He tells you to take. He was at work in Joseph, Daniel, Peter 
and Stephen. But it is one thing to know that the Holy Spirit is available, it's 
another thing to know how to gain access into His ministry. The Amplified 
Version of Job 32:8 says:
===== PDF PAGE 75 =====
But there is [a vital force] a spirit [of intelligence] in man, and the 
breath of the Almighty gives men understanding.
The kind of mental excellence and understanding we re talking about is the
one that needs the help of the Holy Spirit. That s the kind of intelligence that 
will make you become master over the Chaldeans, magicians, astrologers, etc. 
It will make you stand clearly above them in results and put you in command of
all the forces of evil.
Ephesians 3:10 talks about the manifold wisdom of God that disarms 
principalities and powers, putting them in subjection, with you standing and 
walking in total command over them. The manifold wisdom of God puts you in 
natural command of the forces of darkness. 
There is no substitute for the ministry of the Holy Spirit in the school of 
divine wisdom or supernatural mentality. In John 14:26, Jesus said the Holy 
Spirit w ill teach us all things, and in John 16:13, He said the same Holy Spirit 
will sh ow us things to come. That is, He will take things from God and pass 
them unto you.
He then becomes your medium of connection to supernatural intelligence. 
He will bring to light the things that are hid inside God.
Haven't you heard that in Christ are hid all the treasures of wisdom and 
knowledge needed to give you your place and to make you fulfil your dreams in
life (Col. 2:3)? You can't be operating with supernatural intelligence and not be 
great. Everyone who operates in this realm stands out amongst men. Nothing 
compares in value with it. It is unique.
And the Holy Spirit is your principal access into that great treasure of 
wisdom and knowledge, which gives you insight, foresight, dominion and 
unequaled creativity (Job 28:7-28).
Oh, how we need this supernatural mentality called divine wisdom as 
never before! 
We are told in Numbers 27:18 that Moses laid his hands on Joshua, and he 
was filled with the spirit of wisdom. You too can be filled with wisdom!
It is very important not only to know that supernatural intelligence for 
mental exploits is available, but also to know your instrument of access. The 
Holy Spirit is that instrument. He is the gateway to the realms of divine 
intelligence. You have to be able to embrace His ministry before you can 
operate in that realm.
===== PDF PAGE 76 =====
The Spirit of God is essentially the spirit of wisdom. In Acts 6:10, they 
could not resist the spirit and wisdom with which Stephen spoke. 
Peter's experience on the day of Pentecost was supernatural. He did not 
operate as an ignorant and unlearned person at all. The local fisherman 
suddenly became a super intelligent man, by the ministry of this mental catalyst
called the Holy Spirit! He revealed a new Peter to the world. Without opening 
any book, Peter blasted the whole city with an irresistible message of 
redemption, and 3,000 souls got saved the same hour!
Now, forget for a moment the inspiration behind that delivery, check the 
substance and arrangement of the details. All that came to him suddenly. An 
impromptu delivery, unprepared for, yet so profound! That s a demonstration of
the excellent nature of the Spirit of God which dwells inside the believer. That's
why He's called the Excellent Spirit in Daniel chapter 6. His nature is also a 
pointer to His mission which is to supernaturally generate excellence in the 
believer. He introduces supernatural order to your mental faculty, so you're able
to coordinate things that are naturally beyond the level of your intellectual 
capacity. In essence, He generates mental excellence inside you. 
With this understanding, if you yield to the Holy Spirit, you ll go beyond 
speaking in tongues and laying hands on the sick, to a place of astounding 
mental exploits.
Friend, if you're set for a mental revolution, this is the good news: the 
Holy Spirit has a mission of mental revolution in your life. So, give Him the 
place, and you will get to a place where He would naturally unfold things you 
need to know to you.
Embrace His ministry, place value on His ministry and invoke His help. 
When you get to any crossroad, invoke His help. Say to Him, Holy Spirit, show
up in this matter. There must be a way out. Holy Spirit, I'm banking on Your 
ministry to show me which way to go. you're my vital link to my vital source. I 
am counting on You We really need to come to that point where we know that 
the things we are confronted with most of the time are beyond our natural 
capabilities. We need to tap into our supernatural backing, which will make all 
the difference. 
Now, tell the Holy Spirit you're open to His ministry of mental revolution. 
REMAINING RELEV ANT
You need a higher dimension of supernatural mental empowerment, which 
is made possible by a fresh release of the Holy Ghost, to remain relevant 
===== PDF PAGE 77 =====
tomorrow. I have earlier said that where you are now is not good enough for 
tomorrow. Today is just good enough for today. But you need to prepare for 
what will be enough for tomorrow today. You must be constantly filled afresh, 
in order to remain relevant to your generation. That way, you ll be sufficiently 
equipped with the divine mental ability to remain relevant in whatever 
endeavour you're involved in. One day in Benin, the Archbishop Benson 
Idahosa and I were riding in a car together, and he pointed out a building to me.
Look at that building, he said. What about it, sir? I asked. And he said, That 
building used to be the best in Benin many y ears ago. (It was a bungalow with 
a balcony in front). The owner was living in London when he built it. He would
come home in December, and stand on the balcony, waving to everyone that 
passed by. And everybody would marvel, Ah! What a house!
But when the Archbishop was telling me this story, the house was such that
if the government was to reconstruct the road, they wouldn't think twice about 
pulling it down, the Archbishop said. It had lost relevance!
Friend, where you are today is not good enough for tomorrow. So, wake 
up, and get into this freshness I'm talking about. 
You know of course that it's not possible by might or power. It has to be by
the enabling of the Spirit of God.
And when it comes and rests on your mentality, you become a man of 
sweatless triumph and dignity among men. May it be so for you this hour!
===== PDF PAGE 78 =====
CHAPTER 11: 
NOW YOU KNOW...
Now you know you possess a unique mind, a redeemed, regenerated and 
anointed min d, the mind of Christ. It is a sound mind and has what it takes to 
produce sound results and amazing mental exploits. 
God is preparing you to be relevant in this new millennium, because Jesus 
is get ting ready to return. The Church is taking her place at the top. From now 
on, your generation will start searching for where you live! I see you becoming 
a mighty blessing to your generation!
It's now up to individuals to begin to take their places. Your place will not 
be lost to another! The brains that will humble the intellectual world, by reason 
of its supernatural dimension, the brains that will leave an indelible mark on 
this new millennium, are being birthed right now, and you are one of them. By 
the supernatural empowerment of your mentality by the Spirit of God, I see yo 
u numbered among the record breakers in various fields of endeavour, people 
endowed with record-breaking mentality and dignity. Convince yourself that 
you're one of them. 
God is fulfilling Psalm 87 in our midst all the springs of life are in Zion. 
Oh, what a prophetic time we are in! God is saying the end has come to all 
those concerns in your life, because His divine wisdom resident in your mental 
faculty has come to pave the way out for you today. By your encounter with the
teaching in this book, God is out to stamp something on your head that will 
mark you out the remaining days of your life.
The wind is blowing, and the giants of this new millennium are rising! The
wind is blowing, and out of the once-upon-a-time valley of dry bones, a mighty 
host i s rising to their feet!
Whatever appears dead in your life, I see the wind of God infuse fresh life 
into it right now! I prophesy to the wind of the Spirit to blow over your mental 
faculty now! 
I prophesy the fire of the Holy Ghost to go through your mental faculty, 
and bur n off every chaff there now!
I prophesy a supernatural refining of your mental system, by the fire of the
Holy Ghost, in the name of Jesus!
I prophesy your supernatural rising, now!
===== PDF PAGE 79 =====
One striking supernatural insight is worth more in value than a lifetime of 
struggles. One striking supernatural insight on your job, business and family is 
all you need to succeed in life. Now, I prophesy your encounter with striking 
super natural insights on all issues concerning you, in the name of Jesus! Once 
upon a time, the gathering in our all-night meetings was just about fifteen 
people. But, just one insight I got, and the next meeting, there were 3,000 
gathered! One striking supernatural insight is enough to bring a man into the 
limelight. It is more than enough to release a man from the prison, and plant 
him in the palace; more than enough to set a colourful order back in your 
destiny; more than enough to make a millionaire of any pauper! Just one 
striking insight! I release you now into a life of endless insights, that will set 
you on the path of amazing mental exploits that will astound your generation!
It's the dawn of a new day for you, in Jesus precious name! Amen.